SIDDHI EMANATION




GIFT ANTICIPATION

SHADOW FANTASY



THE PRIME EMANATION



PROGRAMMING PARTNER: 31ST GENE PHYSIOLOGY: ADRENALS

KEY

CODON RING: THE RING OF ORIGIN AMINO ACID: METHIONINE

(41) (INITIATOR)



THE 41ST SHADOW – FANTASY



THE GENETIC WHEEL OF SAMSARA



The 41 st Gene Key and its various frequencies comprise a truly remarkable

archetype. It stands alone within the human genetic matrix with a very

important function. It relates to what is known in genetics as the start

codon. Since this is such an important Gene Key it may help to understand

exactly what it means.

Below is an example of a section of genetic code transcribed into letters.

The genetic code is made up of combinations of only four letters A, T, C

and G. These letters are called bases and represent the basic building blocks

of the entire code. Hidden within these billions of letters are specific

instructions for the body to follow. In deciphering the code of life, scientists

discovered that there were places within the sequence where the body

always seemed to know to begin building. They found that whenever the

body sees the letters atg in a sequence, it always acts on the instructions that follow. Thus they called this the start codon because it operates like a

front door key into the code itself.



caattgtcatacgacttgcagtgagcgtcaggagcacgtccaggaactcc

tcagcagcgcctccttcagctccacagccagacgccctcagacagcaaag

cctacccccgcgccgcgccctgcccgccgctgcgatgctcgcccgcgccc

tgctgctgtgcgcggtcctggcgctcagccatacaggtgagtacctggcg

ccgcgcaccggggactccggttccacgcacccgggcagagtttccgctct



From the above description, you should see how important this 41st Gene

Key is. As a genetic archetype of functioning within human consciousness,

its message is of huge import to us all.

At the Shadow level of consciousness, the 41st Gene Key centres around

the issue of fantasy and dreams. Being in the thrall of the 41st Shadow of

Fantasy is like holding the key to your dreams in your hand, but never

turning it in the lock. Whether you have this 41st Shadow in your

hologenetic profile or not, you are undoubtedly available for its influence

because like all the Shadows, it exerts its greatest power through the

collective frequency of the planet. It is because of this 41st Shadow that our

planet is populated by people who dream of a better life but who, for one

reason or another, are unable to bring these dreams into reality.

The 41 st Shadow creates a continual pressure within humans; it is the

pressure to evolve. When this pressure is distorted by a low frequency field,

as is the current state of humanity, it becomes distorted into the pressure to

feel happy. Thus begins what the ancients named the Wheel of Samsara —

an endless cycle of suffering in which humans become trapped by the need

to satisfy their desires. With the mass distortion of the 41st Shadow, it is as

though the body of humanity has misread the instructions left within its

collective DNA. It all begins here, in this Gene Key. It is not desire itself

that is the problem, because desire (the 30th Shadow) comes after Fantasy.

Fantasy is the spark that ignites the fuel of the desire.



Over half of your genetic code derives from other organisms from

an earlier evolution.



So how is it that we have misread such a vital code within our nature?

And is there anything we can do about it? There are many answers to be found within the higher frequencies of this Gene Key as you shall see. For

the moment, let us try and see how this Shadow works, and how effectively

it keeps human consciousness from flowering. The key to the problem, as

ever, lies within your mind. The evolutionary pressure that surges up in

human beings carries our entire genetic history within it; that is, our

evolution all the way from amoeba to Homo sapiens. Over half of your

genetic code derives from other organisms from an earlier evolution. All

this history carries an enormous weight inside you. In one sense it drags

you down, but in another it urges you to want to break free. To face the

pressure of all this past inside you takes enormous courage and, as you let it

in, you want to run and distract yourself away from it in any way possible.

Because of the ancestral weight carried by this Shadow, it has a deep

connection to human appetite and energy. This deeply uncomfortable

pressure coming straight out of the 41 st Shadow causes us to literally

hunger for a better future. By the same token it has connections with eating,

not eating and depression. The distortion of the 41st Shadow can lead to all

manner of weight problems and energy problems — from chronic fatigue to

hyperactivity. All of these issues are ultimately rooted in the mind and its

ability or inability to fantasise about the future. This Shadow constantly

shuffles between the dream of being full and the urge to be empty. When

the gauge reads empty, you fantasise about being full. Whether that means

dreaming of meeting your perfect soul mate, having lots of money or

devouring a bar of chocolate depends upon your individual mind and its

conditioning. Conversely, when the gauge reads full, you can sink into

heaviness in which you feel weighed down by your past and you experience

the urge to purge.

The Shadow of Fantasy prevents you from feeling complete because the

mind doesn’t rest in the now, but swings between dreaming of the future

and rehashing the past. However, the greatest problem with this Shadow is

that it prevents you from actually fulfilling your dreams. You become

addicted to the hope that the dream brings to your mind, rather than actually

launching off in the direction of the dream. This is a major reason why

people live off the fantasies provided by their culture — the movies or

alternative realities created through technology and the internet which have

become humanity’s latest great fantasy addiction.

The 41 st Gene Key is also always involved with issues of leadership. The

leader that knows how to manipulate fantasy can have enormous impact over others. The programming partner to the 41st st Gene Key is the 31 Gene

key with its Shadow of Arrogance. This 31st Gene Key’s theme of

leadership is marred at the shadow level by false humility, which is really

the same thing as arrogance. True leaders have to overcome a deep fear of

humiliation, because when the 41 st Gene Key declares its dreams aloud and

stands behind them, they risk being very easily misunderstood. Those who

bring the new into the world have always faced this challenge.

In conclusion then, the 41 st Shadow of Fantasy sets up the great maya or

illusion in which most human beings live. As a primary evolutionary

pressure it triggers a false start into a mental representation of your life,

thereby short-circuiting your ability to live in the present moment. Fantasy

itself is a beautiful thing, but if it prevents you from really living it becomes

an escape from life into the mind. Once you have become trapped in these

addictive mental patterns, it is very difficult to recognise them and break

out of them. However, in every turn of the wheel of fantasy, as the cycles of

your life periodically reset themselves, there is that chance that the next

time round, the code will be correctly interpreted. When this happens to

you, you will engage the true start codon rather than its shadow. Instead of

escaping back into the vicious cycle of fantasy and hope, your higher

purpose will be unleashed and will manifest in the world.



REPRESSIVE NATURE – DREAMY



The repressive nature of the 41st Shadow is about escaping life through

dreaminess. These people have an agenda that is dictated by fantasy. They

really do not live in the real world. Whatever you say to such people, they

will interpret it through their dream. Such people do not actually want to

fulfil their dreams, but are addicted to the inner worlds created by their

minds. They are governed by deep-seated fear that doesn’t allow them to

have proper human relationships. This dreaminess often presents as a kind

of lethargy that gives rise to the gradual break-down of the energetic

systems within the body — in particular the vascular and the digestive

systems. The only way for these people to break out of their mental cycle is

to begin manifesting their dreams on the material plane.



REACTIVE NATURE – HYPERACTIVE

The reactive nature of this Shadow can be a sheer bundle of nervous energy.

These people are always ahead of themselves, being absolutely carried

away on the fuel of their dreams. This kind of nature inevitably leads to

burnout as the power of the fantasy they are trying to bring into the world

outstrips the limitations of the material plane. Their insatiable hunger drives

them into deeper and deeper problems, whilst placing enormous pressure on

their nervous system. The inevitable breakdown of such a nature is often

highly dramatic and destructive for anyone else involved. The hope for

these people pivots upon their ability to allow others into their inner life and

relinquishing their one-pointed obsession with manifesting their dream

exactly as it appears inside their minds.



THE 41ST GIFT – ANTICIPATION



THE RING OF ORIGIN



As we saw with the 41st Shadow, this Gene Key represents the basic

pressure to evolve — to seek out new pastures and new experiences. This

evolutionary impulse is the secret to the 41st Gift — the Gift of

Anticipation. There is an interesting phenomenon that occurs the more you

raise the frequency passing in and out of your DNA. You become more and

more sensitive to the hidden properties in the world around you. One of the

things you become particularly aware of is the presence of morphogenetic

fields. Morphogenetic fields were first postulated by the scientist Rupert

Sheldrake, but many older cultures have spoken of such energy fields

throughout history. Essentially, a morphogenetic field is an invisible energy

grid that communicates specific information across time and space.

Depending on your sensitivity, you can pick up information about the past

or the future from the field.

The 41 st Gift is a particularly special Gift. As higher frequencies begin to

operate through this Gene Key, it picks up very specific information from

the morphogenetic field. Every one of the 64 Gene Keys operates out of a

particular morphogenetic field. For example, the programming partner of

this Gift, the 31st Gift of Leadership, attunes itself to all higher frequency

leaders on this planet, even inspirational leaders from our collective past.

Each Gene Key draws strength and power from those who have come

before and, at the same time, also attunes to those who have not yet been born. It may explain why certain people seem to have premonitions about

the future. Both of these Gifts — Anticipation (41) and Leadership (31) —

operate together, one reinforcing the other. The greatest leaders are those

who build upon the past and anticipate what is coming. Likewise, people

with the Gift of Anticipation are naturally held up as leaders.

The 41 st Gift has a single genetic agenda — it is always attuned to the

next evolutionary energetic grid that is waiting to descend into form.

Behind it are hidden the blueprints of evolution itself. Which blueprint it

picks up depends upon the level of frequency and the person’s cultural

conditioning and geography. We pick up different blueprints in different

places, and as our frequency rises, the more details we see. Premonitions

sometimes occur to people when their body receives a sudden surge of

frequency through a shock or through being in a particular place with a very

strong morphogenetic field. Most occult phenomena are the result of sudden

electromagnetic surges through the 41 st Gene Key. These impulses are often

misinterpreted when the surge quickly dies back and the Shadow frequency

regains its grip on the vehicle. The mind paints its own fantasy of what it

just experienced and people can interpret these sensations and impressions

in very diverse ways, from ghosts to past lives.



It is the difference between genius and non-genius. Genius

manifests whilst non-genius dreams.



When you are able to maintain a high frequency through this 41 st Gift,

you will be able to literally download all manner of beautiful things from

the morphogenetic field. All works of genius emerge from this field. Mozart

is a fine example of a man with a strongly activated 41st Gift. His ability to

read the completed scores of all his finest works straight from the

morphogenetic field is well documented, although it may not have been

described in this kind of language before. Mozart was born into a world of

music and was intensively tutored by his own father, one of Europe’s

leading musical masters. It is unsurprising then that Mozart picked up on

the burgeoning musical morphogenetic field of his era, now known as the

classical style. He anticipated its maturation and manifested it in the

material plane. This is the real difference between the 41 st st Gift and the 41

Shadow. It is the difference between genius and non-genius. Genius

manifests whilst non-genius dreams.

Since the start codon and its amino acid methionine are only coded by

this single 41st Gene Key, it has a remarkable place within the system of

chemical rings known as the Codon Rings. The 21 Codon Rings are

threaded together as chemical chains that relay biological information

between each other in a fractal manner. This method of information relay

means that the body can essentially operate like a quantum biocomputer,

organising multiple levels of information in response to stimulus from the

inner and outer environment. Within this interlinked ring system, the 20

amino acids can be combined and recombined to create all manner of

chemistries within the body. Nested in the heart of the ring matrix sits the

41 st Gene Key — the Ring of Origin - pulsing with the source code that it

then transmits to the networks of codon rings. Even though we may look at

DNA as a double helix with the four bases strung out along a line of code,

its actual functioning within the body as a whole is in no way linear.

The implications of the above are astounding. Every single start codon

inside every single cell of your body is electromagnetically linked to each

other. This is the foundation of the holographic body, which in turn is linked

electromagnetically to the holographic universe. Every impulse inside you

is therefore communicated to the whole, just as every impulse within the

whole is chemically mirrored in your DNA. Once you have discovered the

knack of influencing your own DNA, you can literally reprogram every cell

within your body. However, in order to activate secret chemical formulae

inside your body that accompany the highest states of consciousness, you

must learn to overcome the inertia of humanity as a whole. This is the

domain of the 41 st Siddhi.



T ST HE 41 SIDDHI – EMANATION



THE OUROBOROS



As we have examined the 41st Gene Key, we have risen to the awareness

wherein the physical body can be seen as a holographic mirror of the

universe, the source of which is this very Gene Key. When we extend this

model at a macrocosmic level to its ultimate frequency, we reach something

both spectacular and terrifying. The question is: What does the cosmic start

codon look like, and what does it mean to arrive at the source of all being?

As the source of being, the 41 st Siddhi is the Siddhi of Emanation. Emanation is a word that has been used by many ancient metaphysical and

mystical systems as a means for understanding something that is really

unapproachable. One of the best known of these systems is perhaps the

Kabbalah, whose central tenet is a map known as the doctrine of emanation.

In a nutshell, the doctrine of emanation points towards a fractal model of

the universe in which everything emerges infinitely as a mirror image of

itself. The cabbalists used the symbol of ten spheres or sephira, one

emanating from another, to represent the various levels of spirit descending

into matter. The ultimate source, known as the ain soph, represents the

unnameable, inconceivable, limitless light from which all else emanates.

Although the Kabbalah is an incredible model of the universe, with many

different uses and dimensions, it remains a flawed model because all

models are flawed by the limitation of language. No language is able to

approach this word emanation. It is a word that contains the concept of

infinity.

The ancient Chinese named this 41 st hexagram of the I Ching Decrease,

which is rather profound because the 41st Siddhi is nothing less than a black

hole. As you approach it, it begins to pull you into pieces. It sucks in

language, it sucks in time and it even sucks in space. It reduces everything

down to nothing. It represents the source of everything. This source has

been given so many names by so many different traditions as man has tried

to understand it. What is so fascinating about this 41st Siddhi is that it is the

source underlying all true siddhic states. No matter what manifestation

comes through our genetics, they are all ultimately grounded through this

Siddhi that is not a Siddhi. In many ways, this is the nameless Siddhi, but

we call it emanation because we have no other way of approaching it.

There is another interesting point that emerges from deep contemplation

of the 41st Siddhi. Somewhere deep within your DNA lies a code whose

sole purpose is to trigger the state we call enlightenment. In certain vehicles

the body picks up a specific set of secret genetic instructions and triggers

the neurological process of enlightenment. It may come as a shock to many

mystical seekers that this process cannot be triggered by what we do up on

the surface. Within the hologram of the universe, enlightenment is a

spontaneous acausal non-event. You could say that Grace triggers this

process, but the point is that it is a chemical process and no one knows why

or when or to whom it will happen. It is an emanation that simply arises

from an unknown source.

Within the hologram of the universe, enlightenment is a

spontaneous “acausal” non-event.



The one whose body has undergone the process of true enlightenment

cannot know how it has happened. Neither can they know to whom it has

happened because no one remains present to experience anything. This

Siddhi triggers the death of experience itself, which is impossible to

comprehend from outside this state. From within this state, there is no

underlying agenda — any manifestations of so-called heightened states of

consciousness are meaningless. Bliss is meaningless, ecstasy is meaningless

and God is meaningless. All the other 63 siddhic states are meaningless

since they are all subtle expressions of the prime emanation. From the

viewpoint of the 41 st Siddhi everything is reduced down to mere

physiology, which is why this Gene Key can be so terrifying for human

beings. It makes a mockery of all your efforts, meditation, morality and

systems for understanding life. There is no how within this Siddhi. This is

the terrifying sentence for us because it means we can do absolutely nothing

to trigger this state, which in turn means that we are utterly helpless.

The one in whom the 41 st Siddhi is made manifest faces a terrible

dilemma. If they speak, they know they will speak with an agenda. Even if

they do not speak, people will interpret this as another agenda. Such people

know that they are trapped. They know that their state can never be

communicated and there is nothing that they say that can help anyone. In

fact, whatever they do say will probably be misinterpreted. One thing that

can be said about such people is that their state triggers great hunger in

others. Whether that is a good thing or not is unknown! All they know is

that for them there is no more hunger. They have somehow fallen off the

wheel of samsara and in doing so, there is no longer any pressure to evolve.

There is no evolution of consciousness. All evolution is a figment of our

imagination and belongs in the domain of samsara itself. In a great final

twist, even the 41 st Siddhi is sucked into the very void from which it

emanates, just as the eternal serpent of consciousness — the ouroboros — is

seen endlessly devouring its own tail.