The unfinished being carried out is a small fox almost finished making a crossing; if it gets its head wet, nothing is profited.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

When the unfinished gets carried out, that means flexibility is balanced. A small fox almost finished making a crossing represents not having gone out of centered balance. If it gets its head wet, nothing is profited; this means not continuing to the end. This is a situation where firmness and flexibility correspond even though they are not in the right places.


IMAGE

Fire is above water, representing the unfinished. Cultured people use prudence to distinguish things and keep them in their places.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. It is embarrassing to get the tail wet. Image. Getting the tail wet means not even knowing your limits.

2 yang. Dragging the wheels, it bodes well to be steadfast and true. Image. For the strong in this position, steadfast truth that bodes well means acting correctly with centered balance.

3 yin. It bodes ill to go on before finishing, but it will be profitable to cross great rivers. Image. It bodes ill to go on before finishing, because the situation is not right.

4 yang. Integrity bodes well; regret will disappear. Stir into action to attack a devilish faction, and in three years be rewarded with a great country. Image. Integrity bodes well, for regret disappears; this is when an intention is put into effect.

5 yin. Integrity is auspicious; there is no regret. When there is truth in the brilliance of cultured people, that is auspicious. Image. The shining of the brilliance of cultured people is auspicious.

6 yang. There is no blame in having faith in drinking wine, but if you souse your head it is no longer right to have faith. Image. To souse your head drinking wine means being immoderate.





NOTES



1. THE CREATIVE

Overall Judgment

“Clouds and rain” symbolize fecundity.

“Six stages”/“six dragons” refer to the six components of a hexagrammatic symbol.

“Dragon” symbolizes energy and power.

Components

The six components of The Creative are models for the process of spiritual alchemy known as “fostering the yang fire,” which means developing energy. The general process illustrated by the six dragons may be taken to refer to any sort of undertaking or action, although it has a special inner meaning in the process of development and refinement of consciousness by spiritual alchemy. See The Book of Balance and Harmony (Berkeley, Calif.: North Point Press, 1989), “The Firing Process,” pp. 104–105.

2. THE RECEPTIVE

“Chaste” means restrained, steadfast, true.

“Mare” symbolizes gentle, docile strength, yin power.

Components

The six lines of The Receptive are models for the process of moderating energy and achieving adaptable power under control. See The Book of Balance and Harmony, “The Firing Process,” pp. 104–105.

5 yin: “Yellow” symbolizes the middle, the center, balance.

6 yin: “Battle in the fields” stands for “conquering inner demons.”“Their blood is dusky yellow” means balance is blurred.

5. WAITING

“To cross great rivers” means to carry out major undertakings.

Components

6 yin: “Three unhurried guests” stand for the gradual rising of positive energy, represented by the first three yang components.

8. ACCORD

Components

1 yin: “Plain vessel” stands for a pure and simple heart and mind.

9. NURTURE OF THE SMALL

“Dense clouds not raining come from your own western region” symbolize energy building up gradually out of inner passivity, on the verge of bursting into action. The western direction is symbolically associated with the yin mode, which is also represented by smallness.

10. TREADING

To “tread on a tiger’s tail” means to go through dangerous or delicate situations calling for great caution and tact.

11. TRANQUILLITY

Components

1 yang: “A reed” is a grass that grows from a continuous root, so reeds come in clusters when pulled out. This symbolizes the clustering or unification of the attention, loyalty, effort, or other resources of a group.

5 yin: “The emperor marries off his younger sister for good luck” symbolizes acting on aspirations in a balanced way, in that the marriage represents an alliance, which is both a combining and a sharing of power.

13. SAMENESS WITH PEOPLE

“Sameness with people in the wilds” symbolizes cooperation with others in a state of objective neediness and want.

Components

4 yang: “When you climb the walls but cannot attack successfully, that is lucky” in the sense that it is justice when aggression is unsuccessful.

5 yang: “First you weep, later you laugh: the great general conquers, then holds meetings”—Honesty may be painful at first, but once it is established, good relations can develop.

15. HUMILITY

Components

1 yin: “Humbly humble” means humility without self-consciousness or artificiality.

4 yin: To “disperse humility” means to apply humility to all aspects of life.

17. FOLLOWING

Components

1 yang: “Outside the gate” represents public life.

2 yin: “Child/adult” stand for lesser and greater concerns or occupations.

19. OVERSEEING

“The eighth month” stands for the waning of positive energy.

21. BITING THROUGH

“Biting through” means cutting through difficulties.

Components

6 yang: A “cangue” is a large wooden square locked around the neck as punishment.

22. ADORNMENT

Components

5 yin: “For adornment in the hills and gardens, a bolt of silk is too small. It is embarrassing, but the end is lucky.” Simplicity and minimalism may seem unbecoming to people in high positions, but the results are good.

23. STRIPPING AWAY

Components

5 yin: “A string of fish” refers to the first through fourth yin components of this sign, symbolizing a group of humble people.

25. FIDELITY

Components

3 yin: “The misfortune of fidelity” means clinging to harmful fixations.

29. CONSTANT PITFALLS

Components

4 yin: “Use a plain cup” means be without artificiality. “A pledge through a window” symbolizes communication with openness and clarity.

30. FIRE

Components

6 yang: “The captives are not of the same kind, so they are not blamed.” Only the leaders of a mob are targeted in a punitive action; the masses of followers are controlled by outside forces, so they are not of the same kind as instigators and leaders.

31. SENSITIVITY

Components

2 yin: “Sensing the calf unlucky, it would be lucky to stay put.” The calf must follow the direction of the foot if the leg is to move: if the foot turns in a wrong direction but the calf does not follow, the leg will not proceed in that way. This is the function of secondary conscience and self-examination.

3 yang: “It is embarrassing to go on” in the sense that it is lowly to be other-directed and not autonomous.

6 yin: “Speaking with the mouth up close” in reference to matters so sensitive that they are spoken of in whispers.

32. PERSISTENCE

Components

5 yin: Here “woman” means yin in the sense of single-minded devotion, while “man” means yang in the sense of multifaceted attention. Both exist in each individual person, but are most effective when used in the respectively appropriate places at the right times.

34. THE POWER OF GREATNESS

Components

1 yang: “When the power is in the feet” means when the motive force is impulsive; in such cases “certainty will wear out” when emotion abates.

5 yin: “Losing the ram in ease” means losing energy by becoming complacent.

35. ADVANCE

“A secure lord uses gift horses in abundance”—A stable leader who does not monopolize power and its perquisites grows in strength by sharing with others.

Components

2 yin: “Grandmother” stands for the 5 yin component of this hexagram.

4 yang: “Like a squirrel” means erratic and inconstant, as if hopping from branch to branch.

6 yang: “Advancing the horns is only used for conquering the heartland”—Aggressive corrective action should be directed only toward oneself or one’s own domain of activity, according to ancient humanistic philosophies like Taoism and original Confucianism, insofar as it is impossible to correct others without self-correction. It is further believed that massive force would not be needed in a perfectly just action, because the charisma of true justice would enter into the dynamics of the entire situation.

39. HALTING

For halting, the southwest is advantageous, not the northeast. The southwest direction is associated with the qualities of receptivity and harmony, being still and open; the northwest is associated with arrest and vitiation of energy. The point is that when halting at obstacles, it is beneficial to remain in a state of alert poise, and not fall into numb passivity or inhibition; only thus will it be possible to get past obstacles and resolve halting.

40. SOLUTION

For “there is profit in the southwest,” see note to hexagram 39.

Components

2 yang: “Three foxes” stand for the three yin components above this one in the hexagram; “catching three foxes” means leading those of higher rank but lesser ability.

4 yang: When you “remove your big toe” means when you are not vehement or aggressive.

41. REDUCTION

The “two bowls” represent yang and yin modes: filling and emptying, activity and passivity.

Components

5 yin: “ten pairs of tortoises” Tortoises were very valuable for both their flesh and their shells; ten pairs could also be used to breed and provide a self-renewing source of wealth. Therefore ten pairs of tortoises represents rich resources, help from above.

42. INCREASE

Components

2 yin: For “ten pairs of tortoises,” see note to hexagram 41. “It is auspicious for the king to purposefully make offerings to God.” Those who are successful should be grateful for the help they receive, and refrain from attributing their success to themselves alone; this is auspicious for them because they may thereby avoid potentially catastrophic conceit and complacency.

43. DECISIVENESS

Components

3 yang: “Vigor in the face” means a show of emotion.

44. MEETING

Components

1 yin: An “emaciated pig” symbolizes someone in desperation.

46. RISING

“An expedition south bodes well.” The southern direction is associated with fire, which symbolizes perceptivity, awareness, and intelligence.

Components

2 yang: “Using ceremony” means being courteous.

47. EXHAUSTION

Components

2 yang: The “regal garment” symbolizes ennoblement.

4 yang: “Gold” symbolizes the yang mode.

49. CHANGE

Components

1 yang: To “use the hide of a yellow ox” means to be firm, centered, and taciturn.

50. THE CAULDRON

Components

1 yin: “When one takes a concubine, as long as she has a son there is no blame.” When measures of secondary resort are taken, if they in fact accomplish the required task, then they are considered good enough.

3 yang: “Pheasant fat” stands for rich food, high living.

“Just when it rains” means when yang is tempered by yin.

5 yin: Here “gold” symbolizes centered balance (from the association of its yellow color), while “jade” symbolizes flexibility and coolness.

6 yang: A “jade handle” stands for yin; a yin image in a yang component stands for the combination of yin and yang, which is the Way: therefore this combination is very auspicious, beneficial all around.

51. THUNDER

Components

2 yin: “You climb up nine hills”—The number 9 symbolizes yang, particularly mature yang; here, “climbing up nine hills” stands for yin seeking yang.

“You will get it in seven days”—The number 7 symbolizes young yang; it also stands for 6 + 1, which means the next phase of development to take place after what is indicated by the six components of the present hexagram.

55. ABUNDANCE

Components

2 yin: When “you see the north star in the daytime,” this means there is darkness when there should be light.

3 yang: When “you see droplets in the sun,” this means there is a diffusion of light.

56. TRAVEL

Components

3 yang: “If you burn the inn and lose your servants. . . .”—If you are destructively careless with material and human resources. . . .

5 yin: “Shooting at a pheasant, one arrow is lost.” Sacrifice may be necessary for the attainment of an aim.

62. PREDOMINANCE OF THE SMALL

Components

2 yin: grandmother here stands for 1 yin

mother here stands for 5 yin

ruler here stands for 5 yin

minister here stands for 4 yang

The qualities of the second component should combine with those of the fifth, by virtue of position, but if the level of the fifth component is not reached, 2 yin and 4 yang may combine by virtue of complementarity of qualities.

5 yin: The “duke” symbolizes the fifth component, which represents leadership. To “take the quarry in its den” means to take care of things while they are still small or subtle.

63. ALREADY ACCOMPLISHED

Components

1 yang: “Drag your wheels, wet your tail”—Slow down and stop.

2 yin: The “woman’s headdress” refers to the yang complement of yin; here it specifically means the complementary component 5 yang.

6 yin: “Getting the head wet” means getting too deeply immersed.





LIST OF HEXAGRAMS WITH THEIR PRIMAL CORRELATES AND STRUCTURAL COMPLEMENTS





CONSULTATION CHART





ALSO BY THOMAS CLEARY

The Tao of Organization: The I Ching for Group Dynamics, by Cheng Yi (1995)*



The Spirit of Tao (1993)



Thunder in the Sky: Secrets on the Acquisition and Exercise of Power (1993)*



The Book of Leadership and Strategy: Lessons of the Chinese Masters (1992)*



Wen-tzu: Understanding the Mysteries, by Lao-tzu (1992)*



The Essential Tao (1992)



The Secret of the Golden Flower (1991)



Vitality, Energy, Spirit: A Taoist Sourcebook (1991)*



Back to Beginnings: Reflections on the Tao (1990)*



Mastering the Art of War, by Zhuge Liang & Liu Ji (1989)*



The Art of War, by Sun Tzu (1988)*



Awakening to the Tao, by Liu I-ming (1988)*



The Buddhist I Ching, by Chihhsu Ou-i (1987)*



The Inner Teachings of Taoism, by Chang Po-tuan (1986)*



The Taoist I Ching, by Liu I-ming (1986)*





*Published by Shambhala Publications




For more information please visit www.shambhala.com.





Sign up to learn more about our books and receive special offers from Shambhala Publications.



Or visit us online to sign up at shambhala.com/eshambhala.