When persistence is successful, there is no blame. It is beneficial to the true. It is worthwhile if there is somewhere to go.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Persistence means going on for a long time. Firmness is above and flexibility is below: thunder and wind form a pair, meaning action in harmony; firmness and flexibility both respond persistently. When persistence is successful, there is no blame; it is beneficial to the true: this means persisting in the right way. The way of heaven and earth persists forever and does not come to an end. It is worthwhile if there is a place to go; upon coming to an end, then there is a beginning. As long as the sun and moon have the sky, they can shine forever; as long as the four seasons change, they can bring about development forever. When sages persist in their way, the whole world evolves to completeness. By observing what they persist in, the conditions of all beings in the universe can be seen.


IMAGE

Thunder and wind persist; thus do cultured people take their stand without changing place.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. Steadfastness in deep persistence is unlucky; no advantage is gained. Image. The bad luck of deep persistence is seeking depth at the very beginning.

2 yang. Regret vanishes. Image. Regret vanishes for the strong here, who are able to persist in centered balance.

3 yang. If you do not persist in virtue, you may bring on disgrace for that. Even if sincere, you will be humiliated. Image. If you do not persist in virtue, you will not be admitted anywhere.

4 yang. There is no game in the fields. Image. If you persist in the wrong position, how can you catch game?

5 yin. Persisting in that virtue, faithfulness is good luck for a housewife, bad luck for a man. Image. For a housewife faithfulness is good luck; this means following one thing to the end. For a man managing duties, it is bad luck to go the housewife’s way.

6 yin. It is unlucky when excitement persists. Image. When excitement persists in the leadership, there is utterly nothing accomplished.