Exhausted, yet getting through successfully, great people who are steadfast and true are lucky and blameless. There are words that are not believed.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

In exhaustion, strength is covered over. It seems only cultured people can be joyful even in straits and not lose the way to get through successfully. Great people who are steadfast and true are lucky, because their strength is balanced. There are words that are not believed, meaning that you will come to an impasse if you place a high value on talk.


IMAGE

A lake with no water symbolizes exhaustion. Cultured people achieve their purposes by living out their destiny.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. Seated exhausted on a tree stump, gone into a dark valley, one is not seen for three years. Image. Having gone into a dark valley means there is obscurity, lack of clarity.

2 yang. When you are exhausted of food and drink, the regal garment then comes; it is worthwhile to purposely make ceremonial offerings. The bad luck of a military expedition is not faulted. Image. To be exhausted of food and drink means to have joyful celebration at heart.

3 yin. Exhausted on a rock, resting on brambles, going into one’s chamber but not seeing one’s wife is unlucky. Image. Resting on brambles means riding on the obdu-rate. Going into one’s chamber but not seeing one’s wife is ominous.

4 yang. Slow to arrive, exhausted in a gold car, it is embarrassing, but there is a conclusion. Image. Being slow to arrive means the aspiration is on something lower. Although one is out of place, there is partnership.

5 yang. Nose and feet cut off, exhausted in a regal robe. After that there gradually comes to be joy. It is worthwhile making ceremonial offerings. Image. Having the nose and feet cut off means that aspirations have not been attained. After that there gradually comes to be joy; that is, if you are balanced and straightforward. It is worthwhile making ceremonial offerings, for the blessings received.

6 yin. Exhausted in entanglements in insecure situations, there will be regret if one thinks action will bring regret. It bodes well to go forth. Image. To be exhausted in entanglements is to have not yet mastered what is before you. That there will be regret if action is regretted means that good luck is operative.