With tranquillity, the small goes and the great comes, with auspicious success.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

With tranquillity, the small goes and the great comes, with auspicious success: this means heaven and earth interact, so that all things and beings attain fulfillment. Above and below interact, and their wills are the same. Yang inside and yin outside symbolize inward strength with outward docility, being a cultivated person within while appearing outwardly to be an ordinary person. The ways of cultivated people go on and on, the ways of ordinary people disappear.


IMAGE

Heaven and earth interacting is tranquillity. Thus do leaders administer the ways of heaven and earth, assisting the balance of heaven and earth to help the people.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. Pull out a reed, and it brings others of its kind with it. An expedition will be lucky. Image. Pulling out a reed and the luck of an expedition refer to the will being set outside.

2 yang. Embrace the desolate, employ those who can cross rivers, do not neglect those far away; when partisanship is gone, you can discover the value of balanced action. Image. Embracing the desolate and getting the value of balanced action are means of glory and greatness.

3 yang. There is no level without incline, no going without return. In hardship and difficulty, the steadfast and true are blameless; let them not grieve over their sincerity, for they will have plenty to eat. Image. There is no level without incline; this is the border of sky and earth.

4 yin. The flighty do not prosper as those around them do. They are not careful about being truthful. Image. Being flighty and not prospering both refer to lack of substantiality and fulfillment. Not being careful about truthfulness refers to inner wishes.

5 yin. The emperor marries off his younger sister for good luck, and it is very auspicious. Image. To act for good luck and have it be very auspicious means to act on aspirations in a balanced way.

6 yin. When the citadel walls crumble into the moat, do not deploy the army. Trying to promulgate order from your own hometown is shameful even if it is right. Image. The citadel walls crumbling into the moat represent the disruption of order.