Abundance is success; kings aggrandize it. Do not worry; it is good for the sun to be at midpoint.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Abundance means magnitude. Understanding applied in action results in abundance. Kings aggrandizing it means valuing magnitude. Do not worry, for it is good when the sun is at midpoint: this means it is good to light up the whole world. When the sun has reached midpoint, then it starts to decline; when the moon has waxed full, then it begins to wane. Even heaven and earth fill up and empty out, waxing and waning with the seasons; how much more so with humans, or with ghosts and spirits!


IMAGE

Thunder and lightning both come, representing abundance. Cultured people make judgments and pass sentences.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. Meeting the leading partner, even as equals, there is no blame. It will be valuable to go on. Image. That there is no blame even as equals means it is disastrous to go past equality.

2 yin. When abundance is a shade, you see the north star in the daytime. To go on will get you suspicion and disdain. It is auspicious if you are truthful in an evident way. Image. To be truthful in an evident way means to express your aims and purposes frankly.

3 yang. When abundance is a downpour, you see droplets in the sun. Breaking your right arm, there is no blame. Image. When there is an abundant downpour means when it is not feasible to do great works. Breaking your right arm means turning out unusable.

4 yang. When abundance is a shade, you see the north star in the daytime. It is auspicious if you meet the hidden master. Image. When abundance is a shade is when one’s position is not appropriate. Seeing the north star in daytime refers to obscurity and lack of clarity. Meeting the hidden master is an auspicious undertaking.

5 yin. It is auspicious when bringing about excellence results in celebration and praise. Image. For the weak in this position it is lucky to have something to celebrate.

6 yin. When you make your rooms huge and enclose your house, a peek in the door finds it silent, with no one there, not to be seen for three years. Image. Huge rooms mean soaring to the edge of the sky with pride. A peek in the door finding it silent, with no one there, means keeping to oneself.