Gradual progress is auspicious for the marriage of a woman; it is helpful to be chaste.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Gradual progress bodes well for the marriage of a woman. When progress is made to the proper stage, the procedure is successful. By progressing in the right way, it is possible to straighten out the country. The proper stage is when strength is in balance. When calm and harmonious, action does not come to an impasse.


IMAGE

There are trees on a mountain, growing gradually. Cultured people improve mores by living with wisdom and virtue.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. As geese gradually make their way onto shore, if the little ones struggle, there is advice, not blame. Image. It is right that the struggle of little ones not be blamed.

2 yin. It is auspicious if geese gradually make their way onto a boulder and eat and drink happily. Image. Eating and drinking happily is not idly stuffing yourself.

3 yang. Geese gradually making their way to high ground, it is inauspicious if the husband goes off on an expedition and does not return, and the wife conceives but does not nurture. It is useful to deliberately ward off enmity. Image. The husband going off on an expedition and not returning represents the disgrace of leaving the group. The wife conceiving but not nurturing represents deviation from the right way. It is useful to deliberately ward off enmity, meaning to get along for mutual security.

4 yin. When geese gradually go up in a tree, if they find a level roost they will have no trouble. Image. If they find a level roost means if they get in by conformity.

5 yang. As a goose gradually proceeding onto a hill, a wife does not conceive for three years; ultimately no one can overcome her. This is auspicious. Image. What is auspicious about being invincible to the end is attaining what one wishes.

6 yang. When geese gradually proceed onto high ground, their feathers can be used for ceremonies; this is auspicious. Image. It is auspicious when the feathers can be used for ceremonies; this means one is not susceptible to confusion.