Contention means there is obstruction of truth; be wary. Balance bodes well, finality bodes ill. It is worthwhile to see great people, but not worthwhile to cross great rivers.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Contention is adamant above and dangerous below, representing powerful contention in danger. Contention means there is obstruction of truth; be careful to remain centered and balanced, and you will have good luck. This refers to strength emerging in balance. Finality bodes ill, because contention cannot be made to conclude. It is worthwhile to see great people, in the sense of valuing balance and rectitude. It is not worthwhile to cross great rivers, because you would plunge into an abyss.


IMAGE

Sky and water going in different directions symbolize contention. Thus do cultured people calculate and plan how to begin whenever they do things.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. If you do not persist forever in an affair, there may be some talk, but all will be well in the end. Image. Not persisting forever in an affair means that contention is not to be prolonged. Although there may be some talk, there will be clarification.

2 yang. If you do not win your suit, go home and hide. With three hundred families in your hometown, there will be no trouble. Image. If you do not win your suit, go home and hide to get out of harm’s way. When suits are brought against those above by those below, problems come up that must be taken on.

3 yin. Though living on past merits, if you are steadfast and diligent you will eventually be lucky. If you pursue government work, you do not make anything happen. Image. Living on past merits is the luck of following the ascendant order.

4 yang. If you do not win your suit, go back and take to your fate, change over to peace. It bodes well to be steadfast. Image. Going back to take to your fate, changing to become peaceful, it bodes well to be steadfast; this means not slipping.

5 yang. Contention may be very lucky. Image. Contention is very lucky when it is balanced and correct.

6 yang. You may be presented with a belt of honor, but it will be taken away from you three times before the day is out. Image. Even if one receives acknowledgment of victory through contention, that does not mean one is worthy of respect.