For a young woman going to marry, an expedition bodes ill, with nothing gained.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Marriage is an important matter for heaven and earth. If heaven and earth do not commune, nothing flourishes. Marriage is an end and a beginning for people. When she acts because of attraction, the one who is married is an immature girl. An expedition bodes ill because it is out of place; nothing is gained, for the weak rides on the strong.


IMAGE

There is thunder over a lake, symbolizing a young woman going to marry. Cultured people know what is wrong by reflecting on lasting results.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. When a young woman going to marry becomes a junior wife, the lame can walk, and it bodes well to go on. Image. When a young woman going to marry becomes a junior wife, that means she is constant; the good fortune of the lame walking means mutual assistance.

2 yang. When only vaguely able to see, it is beneficial to be as steadfast and true as a recluse. Image. It is beneficial to be as steadfast and true as a recluse, in the sense of unvarying constancy.

3 yin. When a young woman going to marry does so with expectations, instead she marries as a junior wife. Image. For a young woman going to marry to do so with expectations means being in a position that is not yet appropriate.

4 yang. When a young woman going to marry postpones the date, she delays marrying until the right time. Image. The purpose of postponing a date is to act only under certain conditions.

5 yin. When the emperor marries off his younger sister, the attire of the princess is not as good as that of the ladies in waiting. The moon almost full, the outlook is good. Image. When the emperor marries off his younger sister, she is not garbed as nicely as the ladies in waiting; that means being poised in balance and behaving with nobility.

6 yin. When the woman receives a chest with no content, and the man sacrifices a goat but there is no blood, nothing is gained. Image. Weakness at the top is insubstantiality, like coming into possession of an empty coffer.