When waiting is truthful, it is gloriously successful; be truthfully steadfast, and you will be lucky. It is profitable to cross great rivers.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Waiting is necessary; when danger lies ahead, that is. When strength is robust and not trapped, its justice is not thwarted and its duty is not frustrated. When waiting is truthful, it is gloriously successful; be truthfully steadfast, and you will be lucky; this means you will take your place in the order of Nature by way of correct balance. That it is profitable to cross great rivers means that progressive action will accomplish something.


IMAGE

Clouds ascend to the heavens, waiting; thus do cultured people relax and enjoy food and drink.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. Waiting on the outskirts, it is worthwhile to try to be constant, so that you may be faultless. Image. Waiting on the outskirts means not having gotten into difficult and problematic activities. It is worthwhile to try to be constant, so that you may be faultless; this is assuming that you have not already become abnormal.

2 yang. Waiting on sand is criticized a little, but there is a good ending. Image. Waiting on sand means there is an abundance in the center. Although there is a little criticism, it can be used to make the end felicitous.

3 yang. Waiting in mud brings on enemies. Image. Waiting in mud means there is trouble outside. Once you have brought enemies on yourself, be serious and careful not to get beaten.

4 yin. Waiting in blood, come out from your own cave. Image. Waiting in blood means listening obediently.

5 yang. Waiting with wine and food, it bodes well to be steadfast and true. Image. With wine and food, it is good to be chaste; that means being balanced and proper.

6 yin. Going into a cave, there are three unhurried guests coming. Respect them, and you will eventually have good luck. Image. When three unhurried guests come, be respectful to them, and you will be lucky in the end. Even if you do not attain status or position, you will not have lost much.