Thunder means getting through successfully: when thunder comes there is alarm, then the mirth of laughing talk. Thunder startling for a hundred miles does not cause loss of serious devotion.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Thunder means getting through successfully: when thunder comes there is alarm, meaning that fear brings on good fortune; then the mirth of laughing talk, meaning that afterward there is a model. Thunder startles for a hundred miles; it startles those far away and frightens those nearby. By serious devotion it is possible to safeguard the heritage and the land, thus acting in a role of sacred leadership.


IMAGE

Repeated thunder causes a stir. Cultured people practice self-examination with trepidation and fear.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. When thunder comes there is fearful alarm; it is auspicious if there is the sound of mirthful talk afterward. Image. When thunder comes there is fearful alarm; fear may bring fortune. The mirthful talk means that there is an example afterward.

2 yin. Thunder coming is dangerous. Remembering the loss of a treasure, you climb up nine hills, but should not pursue, for you will get it in seven days. Image. The danger of thunder coming is riding on the unyielding.

3 yin. When thunder is faint, stir into action and there will be no fault. Image. Thunder being faint means being in a position that is not appropriate.

4 yang. Thunder falls in the mud. Image. Thunder falling in the mud means not having achieved greatness.

5 yin. Thunder coming and going is dangerous. Remember there is no loss, and there is something to do. Image. The danger of thunder coming and going means acting in peril. The thing to do is to remain balanced in the center; then there is indeed no loss.

6 yin. Thunder trailing off, the gaze unsteady, an expedition bodes ill. When thunder does not affect the individual, but does affect the neighborhood, there is no blame. If a partnership is formed, there is talk. Image. Thunder trailing off means centered balance has not been attained. In spite of foreboding, there is no blame, because of being awed by the lesson of the neighbors.