Great success benefits the upright and true.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Vast indeed is the scope of the greatness of the creative basis. All things and all beings originate from it, so it sums up the totality of Nature.

Like clouds raining as they go, things and beings flow in forms. When you have an overall understanding of their processes, how they begin and end, when the six stages have been accomplished in a timely manner, then you ride the six dragons to harness Nature.

The evolutionary developments of the Way of the Creative each straighten out essential life and preserve overall harmony intact. This is what benefits the upright and true. When it emerges to lead the people, all countries are peaceful.


IMAGE

The action of Nature is powerful; cultured people use it to strengthen themselves ceaselessly.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. Do not use the hidden dragon. Image. Do not use the hidden dragon when positive energy is low.

2 yang. When you see the dragon in the field, it is worthwhile to see great people. Image. When you see the dragon in the field, it means that the use of your inner character, qualities, and powers affects everything you do.

3 yang. If cultivated people work diligently all day and are serious at night, then they will not err in dangerous situations. Image. Working diligently means going over and over the Way.

4 yang. One may leap at times in the deep, with no fault. Image. One may leap at times in the depths insofar as there have been no mistakes in the process of development.

5 yang. When the flying dragons are in the sky, it is worthwhile seeing great people. Image. When flying dragons are in the sky is when great people are working creatively.

6 yang. Dragons that fly too high have regrets. Image. Dragons that fly too high have regrets; this means that fullness cannot last forever.

Using Yang. When you see a group of dragons with no head, it is lucky. Image. In using yang, celestial qualities cannot be deliberately made to be in the forefront.