When there is opposition, it is lucky if it is a small matter.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

In opposition, fire moves upward and moisture moves downward; two women live together but their wills do not go the same way. Joyfully clinging to light, flexibility progressing upward, action attains centered balance and responds to firm strength. This is why it is lucky if it is a small affair. Sky and earth are opposite, yet their work is the same; males and females are opposite, yet their wills commune. All beings are different, but their concerns are similar. The timely use of opposition is very important!


IMAGE

Fire above and moisture below symbolize opposition. Cultured people assimilate yet are different.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. Regret disappears. If you lose the horse, do not chase it; it will return on its own. If you see evil people, you will be blameless. Image. Seeing evil people means you thereby avoid error.

2 yang. When you meet the master in an alley, there is no blame. Image. When you meet the master in an alley, that means you have not lost the Way.

3 yin. Having the vehicle dragged and the ox halted, that person is being punished by heaven. Though there was no beginning, there will be a conclusion. Image. Having the vehicle dragged means the position is not appropriate. Though there was no beginning, there will be a conclusion; that is, on meeting the firm and strong.

4 yang. When isolated by opposition, if you meet good people, interact truthfully, and you will be impeccable even in danger. Image. Impeccability through truthful interaction means aims are carried out through purposeful action.

5 yin. Regret disappears. When the clan has punished its own, what is wrong with proceeding onward? Image. When the clan has punished its own, it will be joyful to proceed onward.

6 yang. When you are isolated by opposition, you see pigs covered with mire and a wagonload of demons. The bows drawn at first are the bows later put down. They are not enemies but partners. Proceeding onward, it is lucky if rain is encountered. Image. The luck of encountering rain means that all sorts of doubts and suspicions disappear.