Great success is beneficial for the honest. Do not deliberately hold to a specific goal. It is useful to establish local leaders.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

In difficulty, firmness and flexibility begin to interact, and problems arise. Acting right in the middle of dangerous straits, great success comes through for the honest and true. As thunder and rain fill the body, Nature creates confusion and darkness. It is useful to establish local leaders, but it is not peaceful.


IMAGE

Clouds and thunder make difficulty; thus cultured people consider reasons.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. When you are hesitant and not getting anywhere, it is advantageous to remain upright. It is useful to set up local leaders. Image. Even though you are not getting anywhere, your intentions and actions are to be correct. By respecting the lowly, many people are won.

2 yin. Stopped, not getting anywhere, mounted on a horse but at a standstill, do not be hostile, but form a partnership. A girl is chaste; she does not get engaged. After ten years she becomes engaged. Image. What is difficult for the weak and pliable to do here is to ride upon the strong and adamant. Becoming engaged after ten years means returning to normalcy.

3 yin. Chase deer without a guide, and you will only go into the forest. Cultured people sense that it is better to give up and that it would be regrettable to go. Image. Chasing deer without a guide means following the wild animals. Cultured people give up on this, since to go on would bring regret, because it would be fruitless.

4 yin. Mounted on a horse, yet at a standstill, if you seek partnership it bodes well to go ahead; there is no disadvantage. Image. It is intelligent to go seeking.

5 yang. When stalling the benefits, a little steadfastness is auspicious, a lot of steadfastness is unlucky. Image. Stalling the benefits means that the giving forth is not yet carried out on a large scale.

6 yin. Mounted on a horse but at a standstill, you weep tears of blood. Image. You weep tears of blood, for what can last?