Decisiveness is brought up at the royal court. There is a sincere cry about the existence of danger. Address your own domain. It is not profitable to go right to war. It is profitable to get somewhere.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Decisiveness means making distinctions, strength separating out weakness. It involves being powerful yet pleasant, decisive yet harmonious. When it is brought up at the royal court, this indicates a situation where weakness is riding on top of five times as much strength. If there is a sincere cry about the existence of danger, that caution sheds light. Address your own domain; you will not profit from going right to war, for this preference would lead to desperate straits. It is profitable to get somewhere, for the growth of strength will then be finished.


IMAGE

Water rising into the sky symbolizes removal. Cultured people distribute their wealth to reach those below them, but if they are proud of their virtue, they are resented.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. When powerful in the advancing feet, it is blameworthy to proceed unsuccessfully. Image. To proceed incompetently is faulty.

2 yang. When wary and alert, even if there are attackers in the night, there is no worry. Image. There is no worry even if there are attackers when you have attained a way of balance.

3 yang. Vigor in the face can be bad luck. Cultured people decisively travel alone; encountering rain, if they get wet there is irritation but no blame. Image. If cultured people are decisive, they will be blameless in the end.

4 yang. When there is no flesh on the buttocks, the gait is halting. Lead sheep by a rope and regret is gone. One may hear words without believing. Image. To say the gait is halting means the position is not appropriate. To say one hears words without believing means hearing is not clear.

5 yang. Pleasant yet decisive, balanced behavior is blameless. Image. When balanced behavior is not blamed, balance is still not glorified.

6 yin. Without an alert, there is bad luck in the end. Image. The bad luck of having no alert is finally being unable to continue any longer.