When the small predominates, it gets through successfully, beneficial if correct. It is suitable for small matters, but not for great matters. The call left by a flying bird should not rise but descend; that is very auspicious.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Predominance of the small means the small predominates and gets through successfully. Predominance that is beneficial to the correct is action in concert with the times. Flexibility is central; that is why it is auspicious for small matters. Strength is out of place and imbalanced, so it will not do for great matters. Therein is the image of a bird in flight; the sound left by the bird in flight should not go upward but downward. That would be very auspicious, because going upward would be going against the flow, while going downward would be going with the flow.


IMAGE

There is thunder over a mountain, symbolizing predominance of the small. Cultured people are extraordinarily reverential in their behavior, extraordinarily sorrowful in mourning, and extraordinarily frugal in their needs.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. A bird in flight is considered bad luck. Image. The ill omen represented by a bird in flight refers to something about which nothing can be done.

2 yin. When you have passed the grandmother but meet the mother, or when you cannot reach the ruler but meet the minister, there is no blame. Image. When you cannot reach the ruler, the minister cannot be passed over.

3 yang. It is foreboding when you may be attacked by pursuers if you are not exceedingly defensive against them. Image. Pursuers may attack you; that is unfortunate, but the question is what you can do about it.

4 yang. Impeccability is met if you do not go too far. When it is dangerous to go on, it is imperative to be cautious. Do not deliberately persist forever. Image. If you meet something on the condition that you do not go too far, this means you are out of place. When it is dangerous to go on, it is imperative to be cautious; after all it cannot continue forever.

5 yin. Dense clouds not raining come from one’s own western province. A duke shoots and takes the quarry in its den. Image. Dense clouds not raining have already risen.

6 yin. Not meeting, going too far, the bad luck of the departure of a bird in flight; this is called trouble. Image. Not meeting and going too far refer to having gone too high.