Gathering leads to success; the king goes to his shrine. It is worthwhile seeing great people to attain success. It is beneficial to be true. It bodes well to make a great sacrifice. It is profitable to have somewhere to go.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Gathering means an assembly. Harmonious and pleasant, strength is balanced and responsive; thus a gathering assembles. The king going to his shrine means making offerings of filial piety. It is worthwhile seeing great people to attain success, in the sense of gathering around what is right; so it is beneficial to be true. It bodes well to make a great sacrifice, and it is profitable to have somewhere to go; these mean following the direction of heaven. Observe the focus of their gatherings, and the conditions of all beings in the universe can be seen.


IMAGE

Moisture rises on top of the earth, gathering. Cultured people use defensive weapons to be prepared for the unexpected.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. When there is sincerity that does not last to the end, there is chaos and mobbing. When you cry, part of it is laughter. Do not worry; if you go, there will be no problem. Image. Chaos and mobbing mean that their minds are confused.

2 yin. Attract good luck, and there is no problem. If you are sincere, it is worthwhile to use ceremony. Image. There is no problem if you attract good luck, because it means there has been no change in centered balance.

3 yin. When gathering and lamentation go together, it profits nothing. Go, and there will be no blame, just a little embarrassment. Image. Go, and there will be no blame, insofar as there is accord above.

4 yang. Great good luck is not blamed. Image. When there is no blame only if there is very good luck, that means the position is not appropriate.

5 yang. When they are gathered around the holding of rank, no one blames the insincere. If the basis is always true, regret disappears. Image. To gather around the holding of rank means your aspiration is not yet great.

6 yin. Holdings given away, crying and snuffling, there is no blame. Image. Holdings given away, crying and snuffling, means not resting secure at the top.