Great success beneficial to a chaste mare. Cultured people have places to go; if they get lost first, it is to their advantage to find a leader later on. With yin companions and no yang companions, there is peace; it bodes well to be steadfast and true.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Perfect indeed is the greatness of the receptive earth, which sustains the birth of all beings and accords with what it receives from heaven.

The richness of earth supports beings, its virtue is one with the unbounded, it contains within it vast glory and magnificence, through which all things and beings successfully exist.

The mare is akin to the earth, traveling the earth without bound, gentle and docile, helpful and faithful. Cultured people are going somewhere: earlier they got lost and strayed from the Way, later they followed and attained the eternal.

Having yin companions is going with peers; having no yang companions means joy is in the end. The good omen of stability and steadfastness corrresponds to the boundlessness of earth.


IMAGE

The attitude of earth is receptive. Cultured people support others by enriching character.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. Walking on frost, you come to solid ice. Image. Walking on frost and solid ice stand for the initial congealing of yin. Follow that path all the way, and you come to solid ice.

2 yin. Being honest, straight, and magnanimous will help everything, even without practice. Image. The action of balanced yin is honest and straight. It helps everything, even without practice, because the Way of earth is enlightening.

3 yin. Hide your adornments; it is well to be chaste. If you work in government, you do not do anything, but you get things done. Image. Hiding your adornments and being chaste mean going into action only at the right time. If you work in service of the affairs of leadership, your knowledge is illuminated and expanded.

4 yin. Shut the bag, and there is neither blame nor praise. Image. Shutting the bag so there is no blame is being careful to avoid harm.

5 yin. A yellow garment is very auspicious. Image. To say that a yellow garment is very auspicious means that culture is centered.

6 yin. When dragons battle in the fields, their blood is dusky yellow. Image. Dragons battling in the fields means the Way has come to an end.

Using Yin. It is beneficial to always be steadfast and true. Image. When using yin, always be steadfast and true in order to arrive at a great conclusion.