Reduction is very auspicious and blameless if there is truthfulness. It is appropriate to be steadfast and upright. It is worthwhile going somewhere. What is to be used? Two bowls can be used for presentation.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Reduction means reducing the lower to augment the higher; its course proceeds upward. If there is truthfulness in reduction, it is very auspicious and blameless. It is well to be steadfast and upright, and it is profitable to have somewhere to go. What is to be used? Two bowls can be used for presentation. The two bowls must be timed appropriately: reduction of firmness and increase of flexibility have their times, as reduction and increase, filling and emptying, go along with the time.


IMAGE

There is a lake below a mountain, symbolizing reduction. Thus do cultured people eliminate wrath and stop cupidity.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. Concluding your business, go right away, and there is no blame; but assess before reducing this. Image. Concluding your business and going right away means joining higher aims.

2 yang. It is beneficial to be steadfast and true, but it would be unlucky to go on an expedition. Do not decrease, but increase this. Image. For the strong in this position, it is beneficial to be steadfast and true, and this is to be considered their aim.

3 yin. When three people travel, they reduce a single person. One person traveling gets suitable companionship. Image. When one acts as an individual, a group is suspicious.

4 yin. Reducing the ailment, causing prompt rejoicing, there is no problem. Image. If you reduce the ailment, that is indeed something to be glad about.

5 yin. If given ten pairs of tortoises, no one is able to oppose. Very lucky. Image. The great good luck of the weak in this position is help from above.

6 yang. Do not decrease, but increase this. There will be no blame. It bodes well to be steadfast and true. It is beneficial to have somewhere to go; you find helpers but have no house. Image. Do not decrease, but increase this, meaning full attainment of your aim.