When there is a well, changing a town does not change the well. There is neither loss nor gain. There are goings and comings, but the well remains a well. One that almost reaches is still not rope enough for hauling from the well. Breaking the bucket is bad luck.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Wind under water, making the water rise, symbolizes a well. A well nourishes without being exhausted. Changing the town does not change the well; this means acting with firm strength and centered balance. Losing nothing and gaining nothing, whatever the comings and goings, the well is a well. If it almost reaches, it is still not a sufficient rope for hauling water from the well; this refers to when one has not yet accomplished anything successfully. Breaking the bucket refers to the way bad luck happens.


IMAGE

There is water over wood, symbolizing a well. Cultured people encourage reciprocity by comforting the common folk.


COMPONENTS

1 yin. Mud in a well is not drunk. At an abandoned well there are no beasts. Image. Mud in the well is not drunk, being at the bottom. That there are no beasts at an abandoned well means being left behind by the times.

2 yang. The depths of the well provide enough for a minnow; the jar is broken and leaks. Image. The depths of the well providing only enough for a minnow represents having no associates.

3 yang. When a well is cleared but not partaken of, it is a pain to one’s heart. It can be drawn upon, and when the ruler understands, all will receive its blessings. Image. When a well is cleared but not partaken of, that means practical steps are a painful worry. Seeking the understanding of the ruler is to receive blessings.

4 yin. When a well is tiled there is no problem. Image. When a well is tiled there is no problem; this means repairing the well.

5 yang. When a well is pure, its cold spring is partaken of. Image. Partaking of a cold spring means being balanced and upright.

6 yin. While the well is being drawn from, do not cover it. Truthfulness is very auspicious. Image. Great luck is major achievement at the top.