Change proves true on the day it is finished. For great success, it is profitable to be upright and true; then regret disappears.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Change is symbolized by water and fire extinguishing and evaporating each other. Two women living together but at cross-purposes represent change. It proves true on the day it is finished; when the change has happened, then it is believed. When it is civilized and pleasing, very successful because it is right, and the change is appropriate, the regret then disappears. As heaven and earth change, the four seasons take place. When ancient rulers changed the social order, they followed Nature and responded to humanity. The timing of change is very important!


IMAGE

There is fire in a lake, symbolizing change. Cultured people define the seasons clearly by making calendars.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. Use the hide of a yellow ox for firm stability. Image. Use the hide of a yellow ox for firm stability; that is, when it is inappropriate to act on anything.

2 yin. On the day it is done, then you have changed something. It bodes well to proceed; there will be no problem. Image. On the day it is done, the execution of change is praiseworthy.

3 yang. When an expedition bodes ill, it is dangerous to persist. When talk of change is successful three times, there is truth to it. Image. When talk of change works out three times, then where to go?

4 yang. When regret disappears and it is trustworthy, a revolution bodes well. Image. What bodes well for a revolution is trust in its purpose.

5 yang. Great people change like tigers. They have certainty without arguing. Image. That great people change like tigers means that their patterns are clearly evident.

6 yin. Cultured people change like leopards; ordinary people change their outward appearances. When it bodes ill to go on an expedition, it bodes well to abide stead-fastly. Image. That cultured people change like leopards means their patterns are intricate. That ordinary people change their outward appearances means they conform to the leaders they follow.