Increase is worthwhile if it is going somewhere. It is worthwhile to cross great rivers.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

Increase means decreasing the higher to add to the lower; the delight of the people is boundless. Going down from the higher to the lower, that path is very brilliant. It is worthwhile if it is going somewhere, meaning that there will be happiness if you are balanced and upright. It is worthwhile to cross great rivers, meaning that the path of harmonious action is carried out. Increase is active, in a harmonious way, progressing day by day, without bound. As heaven disburses and earth produces, their increase is universal. In any case, the path of increase goes along with the time.


IMAGE

Wind and thunder symbolize increase. When cultured people see good, they take to it; and when they have made a mistake, they correct it.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. When it is profitable to do major works, if they are very auspicious there is no problem. Image. There is no problem if the works are very auspicious, meaning that subordinates are not overlooked.

2 yin. If given ten pairs of tortoises, no one can oppose. It is auspicious to be eternally steadfast and true. It is auspicious for the king to purposefully make offerings to God. Image. That something is given means it comes from outside.

3 yin. There is no blame in using unfortunate events for enhancement. Be sincere and balanced in conduct; when making announcements to lords, use a symbol of authority. Image. Use of unfortunate events for enhancement is something that has always existed.

4 yin. Balanced conduct expressed publicly is followed. It is an advantage when needed for use as a basis to move a homeland. Image. What the public will follow when it is expressed is the will to help make beneficial improvements.

5 yang. To have sincerity blesses the heart, without question. Very auspicious. To have sincerity blesses one with rewards for virtue. Image. To have sincerity blesses the heart; do not question it. It blesses one with rewards for virtue, major attainment of aims.

6 yang. Do not increase something so much that it might be attacked; when you set your mind to something, do not be so persistent that it leads to bad luck. Image. To say that something should not be increased so much generally refers to partiality; to say that it might be attacked refers to what comes from outside.