When there is injury to the enlightened, it is beneficial to be steadfast and true in distress.


OVERALL JUDGMENT

The enlightened go underground; this is when there is injury to the enlightened. Inwardly refined and illumined yet outwardly soft and docile, they therefore suffer great difficulties and hardships. It is beneficial to be steadfast and true in distress; this means concealing your illumination, making your intentions upright in spite of inner difficulties.


IMAGE

Light going into the ground symbolizes injury to the enlightened. In dealing with the masses, cultured people are deliberately unobtrusive, yet illumined.


COMPONENTS

1 yang. When the enlightened are injured in flight, they let their wings hang down. Cultured people on a journey do not eat for three days. When there is somewhere to go, the person in charge has a say. Image. When cultured people are on a journey, it is right for them not to eat.

2 yin. When the enlightened are injured in the left leg, there is need for help; it is lucky if the horses are strong. Image. Luck for the weak in this position is to have practical models to follow.

3 yang. When the enlightened have been injured and go south hunting, even if the big bosses are caught they cannot be corrected quickly. Image. The aim of hunting in the south is a major takeover.

4 yin. Going in through the left belly, you find the heart of injury to the enlightened and seek to go out of the house. Image. Going in through the left belly means finding the intention in the mind.

5 yin. When injured because of enlightement like a righteous scion of a corrupt house, it is beneficial to be upright and true. Image. The uprightness of a righteous scion of a corrupt house is in the fact that illumination cannot be stopped.

6 yin. When not illumined, there is darkness. First you climb to the sky, later you go underground. Image. First climbing to the sky means lighting up the nations of the four quarters; later going underground means loss of normalcy.