CONTRACTION Channel 41-30 Recognition A design of focused energy Harmonic Gate 30 The Clinging Fire ‹ 60 v 41 19 Center Root w ‹ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 02° 00' 00" ‹ - 07° 37' 30" ‹



This is the gate of Contraction, captured in the traditional Chinese image of the gardener in his garden in the Au-tumn cutting back his plants. In terms of our genetics, the 41st gate is the only 'Initiator (start) Codon'. It attests to the importance of the Sensing Circuit and this Stream of Feeling in particular. This gate fuels the potential to rec-ognize. This recognition is through feelings. The fuel gates of this Circuit (64 & 41) are very similar. The 41st gate can contain all the possible range of feelings, yet, as in the mental process, it is only one feeling which will be of value. There is also a parallel between the three channels connecting the Root to the Solar Plexus and the three channels that connect the Root to the Spleen. The Channel of Judgment (58/18) is a mirror of this Feeling Stream. The focus of this stream is to recognize (to judge abstractly) through a single feeling. However, judgment is condi-tioned by the frequency of the now; recognition is conditioned by the wave. It is never immediate. It is always a process. Patience is the great virtue of the Emotionally defined.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE UNEXPECTED (4) FANTASY THE ALPHA (2)





41





DECREASE 41





THE LIMITATION OF RESOURCES WHICH MAXIMIZES DEVELOPMENT OF



POTENTIAL.





66 Contagion The law that the maximization of potential not only ends decrease but inevi-i- The law that the maximization of potential not only ends decrease but inev 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" tably such transcendence benefits others. tably such transcendence benefits others.



Æ p The maximization of the potential of form. The father whose success will benefit his



children. The fuel for recognition through feelings.



É s The tendency in transcendence to keep it a secret in fear of being deprived of its



special advantages. The fuel for secret or repressed feelings.





55 Authorization The external recognition of one's potential despite limitations. The external recognition of one's potential despite limitations. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Ä p The value of energy when properly channelled. The fuel for properly channelled feel-



ings despite limitations.



Ã s A persistent dissatisfaction with limitation which hampers development even when



supported. Limitations initiate the fuel for negative feelings.





44 Correction Successful adaptation to limitation. Successful adaptation to limitation. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Í p Survival of the fittest and its eventual flourishing. The energy for adaption and a



deep feeling for survival.



Ã s The expenditure of energy on maintaining relationships rather than on correction. In



times of decrease weak associations are shunned as costly, no matter how attrac-tive. The energy which fuels holding on to feelings rather than adapt.





33 Efficiency In times of decrease selfishness is justified. In times of decrease selfishness is justified. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Æ p Material ambition and the discipline to go at it alone. The energy that fuels the feel-



ing for personal ambition.



Á s Instinctive assistance, admirable but in this position misguided, where two will use



up resources twice as fast as one. The energy that fuels the feeling to share.





22 Caution Humanism tempered by pragmatism. Humanism tempered by pragmati sm. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" Æ p A conservative nature that does not risk its own security in aiding others. Energy for



one's own feelings but not for others.



Ä s A desire for recognition that throws caution to the wind, depleting valuable re-



sources for only temporary gain. The energy for the display of feelings for recogni-tion.





11 Reasonableness The appropriate delegation of responsibility. The appropriate delegation of responsibility. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" È p The imagination to make the very best out of very little. Coolness, where the energy



to release feelings is selective.



Â s A tendency in understanding, to assume capability, leading to strain. The hothead,



the urge to release feelings.