THE ROLE OF THE SELF Channel 31-7 The Alpha For 'good' or 'bad' the design of leadership Harmonic Gate 31 Influence … 33 v 7 4 Center G w … Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 13° 15' 00" … - 18° 52' 30" … …



The 7th gate is part of the Sphinx Cross. It is a gate of logical direction. This is the gate of the role of the Self in interaction. The Channel of the 'Alpha' is a design of Leadership. It is the Understanding Circuit which leads us into the future. It is a rule of all forms, that only logic, only the tested and established patterns, can be followed with any certainty. Below in the line keynotes, it is clear how the nature of these leadership roles are dtermined. What is significant, is that the Self is unaware. The role is genetic and mechanical and it does not respond to a concept of role. An Authoritarian will always be one, regardless. However, the conditioning power of this gate is enormous and has had profound effects on our collective history. The 31 may have the Influence but the direction and role of the 7, is all too often the power behind the throne. Bill Clinton with his 31 and Hillary Clinton with 7. 2 or Nehru's 31 and Indira Ghandis' 7. 2 are classic examples of democratic role conditioning.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SPHINX (3) INTERACTION MASKS (2)





7





THE ARMY 7





THE POINT OF CONVERGENCE. BY DESIGN, THE NEED FOR LEADERSHIP



TO GUIDE AND ORDER SOCIETY.





66 The administrator The ability to share and justly apportion power. The ability to share and justly apportion power. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" Â p The power to communicate the frameworks of responsibility. The capacity of the Self



through its role to communicate responsibility.



Ç s The bureaucrat whose lust for power eventually destabilizes the organisation. The



role of the Self to seek power through the communication of responsibility.





55 The general Leadership whose authority must be absolute and is sanctioned by society in Leadership whose authority must be absolute and is sanctioned by society in 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" times of crisis. times of crisis.



Ã p The gift of attracting loyalty necessary in harmonizing the potential of society. The



capacity of the Self through its role to attract loyalty.



È s The commander isolated from his troops and obsessed with victory at any price.



The lack of loyalty when the Self insists on isolation.





44 The abdicator The willingness to accept the judgment of the people and/or the rule of law. The willingness to accept the judgment of the people and/or the rule of law. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" À p The grace and wisdom to step down for the benefit of the whole. The capacity of the



Self to accept the judgment of others.



Ç s One who must be forced from power by overwhelming opposition. The refusal of the



Self to accept the judgement of others.





33 The anarchist The rejection of any institutionalized order. The rejection of any institutionalized o rder. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Á p The constant need for change no matter what the prevailing conditions. The drive of



the Self to express many roles.



Â s The nihilist. The capacity of the Self to deny value in any role.





22 The democrat The ability to lead by serving the will of the majority. The ability to lead by serving the will of the majority. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" È p The application of universally accepted systems. When connected through the Al-



pha Channel to Gate 31 Influence, the potential for widespread and revolutionary effect on society. The capacity of the Self to lead when chosen.



Â s Elitism and denegation by democrats of democracy. The capacity of the Self once



chosen to feel superior to those who chose them.





11 Authoritarian The iron hand both enlightened and despotic. The iron hand both enlightened and despotic. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Ã p Venus exalted, as in the basic values and rules imposed on a child. The capacity of



the Self to guide with authority.



Â s The distorted intellect that believes only it knows best. The capacity of the Self to



insist that its authority is best.