CONTRIBUTION Channel 8-1 Inspiration The creative Role Model Harmonic Gate 1 The Creative ‚ 23 v 8 20 Center Throat w ‚ Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 24° 30' 00" ‚ - 00° 07' 30" ƒ



The 8th gate is a mirror to the function of the 23rd gate of Assimilation. Both are part of the Knowing circuit, both have the ability to express the possibilities of individuality. The 23rd gate says, 'I know' and the 8th gate says, 'I know I can'. This is the gate of the individual contribution to the whole. Imagine that a group of tourists are lost on an excursion. The 8th gate does not lead either logically ('I think, it's that way' 31: Influence) nor Abstractly ('I re-member, it was this way' 33: Retreat), it can only act as an example. The 8th gate stands up, gets everybody's attention and says, 'I know, I can find the way' and leaves. Those who wish to take the chance and follow are wel-comed and if no one takes heed, the knower will go on alone. The contribution of the Individual can never be pressed onto the collective. It would only lead to resistance.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONTAGEN (2) CONTRIBUTION UNCERTAINTY





8





HOLDING TOGETHER 8





THE BASIC WORTH REALIZED IN CONTRIBUTING INDIVIDUAL EFFORTS TO



GROUP GOALS.





66 Communion The certainty which grows out of harmony. The certainty which grows out of harmony. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ã p The awareness of patterns that ensures correct timing. The gift of knowing when to



contribute creatively.



É s Doubt, which may engender regret even in the most ideal circumstances. Uncer-



tainty in timing and regret despite circumstances.





55 Dharma Holding together does not exclude eventual separation. Successful union, after a Holding together does not exclude eventual separation. Successful union, after a 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" proper term will encourage separation. The fledgling once mature is expected to proper term will encourage separation. The fledgling once mature is expected to



leave the nest. This is right action which does not harm the integrity of the union. leave the nest. This is right action which does not harm the integrity of the union.



Å p The teacher. Contribution as part of a process of sharing that accepts and expects



limitation, exemplified in teaching.



À s The parent that cannot let go of the child, understanding only, that its authority is



being challenged. Contribution as an end in itself that neither accepts nor expects limitation, exemplified by the parent that cannot let go of the child.





44 Respect The gift of naturally recognizing the contributions of others and particularly, The gift of naturally recognizing the contributions of others and particularly, 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" the acknowledgement of those who lead by example. the ackn owledgement of those who lead by example.



Å p The uncompromizing drive to assimilate. The drive to contribute and be an example



to and for others.



Â s In a group where limitation is transcended, reason alone cannot predict individual



worth. As an example, the acknowledged leader of an athletic team is not necessar-ily the most talented. A gift for contribution that is not conditioned by limitations.





33 The phoney The acceptance of the style and not the substance of communal actions. The acceptance of the style and not the substance of communal a ctions. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Á p The perfected and rarely detected superficial intimacy. The example as an expres-



sion through style, not substance.



Æ s A shallowness that underestimates others and overestimates its own ability to con-



tinue its deception without detection. An overreliance and unfounded confidence in style.





22 À p The highest good, to serve selflessly. The potential to be an example through unsel-Service fish expression. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Í s The earth in detriment, where reward is a prerequisite of service. The willingness to



be an example for a price.





11 Honesty The truthful acceptance of limitation and re--cognition that it can only be tra The truthful acceptance of limitation and re cognition that it can only be tran- n- 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" scended through sharing. scended through sharing.



È p The awareness that the whole is always greater than the sum of its parts. Knowing



that creative expression must be honestly communicated and shared.



Â s Withdrawal. The fear of losing individuality in a group environment. The design to



share creativity at the expense of individuality.