STIMULATION Channel 56-11 Curiosity The design of the searcher Harmonic Gate 11 Peace „ 62 v 56 w 31 Center Throat „ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 26° 22' 30" „ - 02° 00' 00" …



The 56nd gate like the 62nd gate, is metamorphic. Rather then transforming logic into language, the 56th gate transforms the abstract into language. This is the gate of stimulation and says, 'I believe'. This is the expression of the Channel of Curiosity, the design of a seeker, a searcher. The expression of an idea is not a fact. It cannot be substantiated by formula. The idea is never a solution but is always a journey. Collective mental awareness is never primarily about action. The eyes and what they see and how the images are manipulated within the mind are forever illusionary. The collective mind is about translating the Human experience into language. It is about fixing our relative place in time, the logic projecting into the future and the abstract reflecting on the past. Not suprisingly, the 56th gate in its genetic relationship, is a 'stop Codon'. A punctuation point at the end of a sen-tence. Once an idea is expressed verbally, that is the end of the process!



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF LAWS (2) STIMULATION DISTRACTION





56





THE WANDERER 56





STABILITY THROUGH MOVEMENT. THE PERPETUATION OF CONTINUITY



THROUGH THE LINKING OF SHORT TERM ACTIVITY.





66 À p The prudence, when linkage has been achieved, to honour its new commitments in Caution order to secure its footing. Honesty in expression. Living by one's word. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" É s The profound unconscious wanderer, where external yearning for acceptance will



unconsciously release the exact energy that creates rejection. A difficult role, where the self is unknown and not recognized with predictable results. Wandering throughout the life from one expression to the next unable to find the stimulation that one could live by.





55 Ç p Unusualness, innovation and sometimes genius as guarantees of eventually attract-Attracting attention ing attention and support. Stimulation at its most innovative and unusual. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Ä s All too often the tendency to attract attention that is self-defeating in its effects. The



power of stimulation to provoke and disturb.





44 Á p The perfection of the superficial personality, that can mask, when essential, its true Expediency feelings to secure protection. The gift for stimulation as a role and for protection. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Â s Expedient behaviour whose price is a constant stressful alertness and nervous



anxiety in fear of losing what has been gained. The role as reality. The fear of silence and of being uncovered.





33 Alienation Determined self--sufficiency. Determined self sufficiency. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" À p A will and egoism that often proves overbearing and guarantees continued isola-



tion. Here, this is acceptable given the Sun's intrinsic vitality. The drive to control and be the focus of expression.



Ã s The reversed aesthetic that offends others, ensures isolation, and eliminates sup-



port. The drive to control the expression at the expense of stimulation.





22 Ç p Isolated genius that will eventually find continuity through recognition and support. A Linkage genius for stimulating expression that will take time to mature and will need others to 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" recognize it.



Á s A superficiality which collapses under recognition and is eventually forced to move



on. A gift for communicating but not enough depth.





11 Á p The practical sense that even short term activities should be of value. Expression of Quality practical ideas that have value. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Ä s The ego drive to make an impression that will misuse energy in trivial pursuits. The



drive to stimulate that will express any idea, no matter how trivial.