IDEAS Channel 11-56 Curiosity The design of the searcher Harmonic Gate 56 The Wanderer ‰ 26 v 11 w 10 Center Ajna ‰ Circuit Sensing

Astrologic Position 22° 37' 30" ‰ - 28° 15' 00" ‰



The gate of Ideas is the conceptual possibility which emerges from the difficult task of realizing. This gate pre-pares a concept for articulation through the capacity of its visual memory. Like its mirror, the 17th gate of Opinion, the 11th gate is associated in our biology with the eyes, here, the left eye. The left eye operates in a wave. In the now, it sees only an aspect of the whole, yet over time, given its memory, it can capture the entire picture. Ideas are not facts, they are possibilities. The process of making sense out of something cannot stop at realization. The goal of mental awareness is expression. The idea is a tool geared to express what has been sensed. This is a gate of those who seek stimulation, who have a need to stimulate, to share their ideas. So many people are frus-trated when their wonderful ideas do not turn into realities, but look at the design. The fulfillment of an idea is its verbal expression, not action; and with good reason, this is the circuit of cycles, transitoriness and the wave. Ideas are not a prescription for action, they are stimulation for reflection.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EDEN (4) IDEAS EDUCATION (2)





11





PEACE 11





A HARMONIC CONDITION IN THE INDIVIDUAL OR SOCIETY THAT PERMITS



ASSESSMENT BEFORE RENEWED ACTION.





66 Adaptability The inner balance to accept transition. The inner balance to accept transition. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" È p The innate awareness that all forms are transitory. The realization that ideas lead to



change and are changeable.



Å s Adaptability in its most negative manifestation. The speculator who profits at the



expense of others in times of peace or war. The realization of what idea is of value in any situation.





55 Á p The motiveless nurturing of the disenfranchised to ensure harmony. Philosophic and The philanthropist humanitarian ideas. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Â s The withdrawing from direct contact, where giving is a form of defence. Giving away



ideas out of a sense of insecurity.





44 The teacher The ability to express the essential nature of peace. The ability to express the essential nature of peace. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Á p The sage, that in the extreme, can teach harmony to the tone deaf. Venus is also



exalted. The ability to reach out and attract the alienated. Concepts which are clear and transferable. Ideas which can attract and inform the uneducated.



À s The Guru, whose most valued wisdom is intentionally limited to a few. Ideas which



can only be grasped by the few.





33 The realist The acknowledgment that peace is transitory. The acknowled gment that peace is transitory. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" É p The internal renewal to maintain strength and alertness. The realization that ideas



come and go.



Ã s The tendency to appreciate harmony to the point of delusion. The belief that beauty



is eternal. Fiddling while Rome burns. A pleasure in ideas that have no real applica-tion.





22 Rigour The recognition that without vigilance and risk, peace can lead to stagnation The recognition that without vigilance and risk, peace can lead to stagnation 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" and collapse. and collapse.



È p The imagination applied to ensuring the understanding of achieved values. A sense



of boredom overcome through the imagination.



Ä s The resorting to factionalism to satisfy the ego's need for action. Provoking with



ideas to escape boredom.





11 Attunement The serendipity of being in the right place at the right time. The serendipity of being in the right place at the right time. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Á p The nourishment derived from being with those who share the same goals and



aspirations. The gift of finding those who will value your ideas.



Ä s The fear of anonymity. The sense that no one will value their ideas.