ALERTNESS Channel 44-26 Surrender A design of a transmitter Harmonic Gate 26 The Taming Power of the Great ˆ 28 v 44 1 Center Spleen w ˆ Circuit Ego



Astrologic Position 07° 37' 30" ˆ - 13° 15' 00" ˆ ˆ



This is the Channel of Entreprenerial Enterprise, a design of a Transmitter. Where the channel of Community is socialist, the channel of Surrender is capitalist. The instinct and memory to transmit ones Ego to the Tribe. This is a public channel. This is a gate specifically of Memory. Instinctive memory, not one that can be called forward but a memory that operates in the now and is cued by patterns in experience. The alertness of this gate is the alert-ness to patterns. The possibilities of this instinctive memory and its sharpness have no direct access to expres-sion through the Throat. It is a mirror of the 37th gate, that offers social loyalty and access to the Tribal refrigerator in return for the promise of benefits from the Ego's will power. The 44th gate offers individual loyalty and access to its memory resources in return for the Ego's strength to assuage its fears. Coming to Meet is the gate of the fear of the past.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE FOUR WAYS (3) ALERTNESS INCARNATION (2)





44





COMING TO MEET 44





THE SUCCESS OF ANY INTERACTION IS BASED ON THE ABSENCE OF ANY



PRECONDITIONS.





66 É p A perfected renewal in which the establishment of a new form inures one to the Aloofness condemnation of the rejected. The awareness of patterns which ensures one's in-12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" stinctive well-being.



Í s Intolerance and arrogance for lesser mortals. The awareness of patterns which can



bolster the ego at the expense of the well-being of others.





55 Ç p The ability to transform interaction with inferior elements into the energizing of pro-Manipulation gressive process with the additional benefit, that in tapping the inferior elements 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" they remain weak. Where the instinctive recognition of the patterns leads to the pos-



sible manipulation of others.



Ä s The tendency in this form of manipulation to become abusive and degenerate to



their level. The possibility that the instinctive recognition of the patterns could lead to the abuse of others.





44 Honesty The refusal to engage in hypocritical interaction. The refusal to engage in hypocritical interaction. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" É p Indifference at its most logical and cutting. The indifference possible when guided



by the instinctive memory.



À s The Sun in detriment, that in extreme situations, in cases of self-sustainment, will



expect assistance from forces it has totally rejected. Here the honesty is the genu-ine need. The sacrifice of indifference for survival.





33 Interference The failure to interact based on circumstances. The failure to interact based on circumstances. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ä p The ability to recognize the threat of interference and to prepare for its effects. The



alertness and instinct to handle the ego of others.



È s A deluded response to interference that gets stuck in projection and as a result is



unrealistic in appraisal and error prone. The possibility that the instinct cannot han-dle the ego of others.





22 Å p The development and management of a proper collective structure which restricts Management inferior elements by creating cooperative modes that integrates these forces with 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" progressive and superior forces. The possibility that alertness to patterns will result in



management capability.



Ä s A tendency in management to concentrate exclusively on goals, ignoring inferior ele-



ments which leads inevitably to quantitative success and qualitative failure. The instinc-tive memory for the patterns that bypasses the development of managerial capability.



11 Conditions The establishment of frameworks as the result of interaction. The establishment of frameworks as the result of interaction. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" É p A mastery of the collective that can establish restrictive conditions for inferior com-

ponents and with the ability to enforce them. An alertness to patterns than can lead to mastery of the collective.

Ã s An attractive nature that will interact with inferior forces and will fail to apply restric-

tions resulting in a risk to continued harmony. The failure of the instinct out of the need for harmony.