MYSTERY Channel 61-24 Awareness A design of the thinker Harmonic Gate 24 Returning Š 54 v 61 w 60 Center Head Š Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 20° 45' 00" Š - 26° 22' 30" Š Š



The old joke about history being his story and mystery being my story, Inner Truth is the pressure to resolve the individual mystery. The Head Center is not an Awareness Center. It is a pressure. The intensity of the pressure can fuel unique inspiration or can lead to delusion and madness. The Knowing Circuit is outside of the collective. The frequency of Mental Awareness is over all time. The pressure of the unknown and knowable haunts the thinkers mind. This is the pressure to know the absolute.

The Knowing Circuit is extremely complex. There are three different Fuels bringing pressure to this individual process. It helps to illustrate clearly how different aspects of our nature have a symmetry with others. 38:Opposition, the Fighter and 39:Obstruction, the Provocateur, like Inner Truth are aspects operating out of dif-ferent frequencies but doing the same work. Unique inspiration is both a struggle and a provocation. The pressure to fight is spontaneous, the pressure to provoke comes in a wave, but the pressure to know stays the whole life. The potential of Struggle is staying alive in the now. The potential of provocation is the discovery of the Spirit. The potential of Inner Truth is Silence.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF MAIA (4) THINKING OBSCURATION (2)





61





INNER TRUTH 61





THE AWARENESS OF UNIVERSAL UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES.





66 É p The profound attunement to the collectivity that can lure the public to a truth. Inspi-Appeal ration that can bring clarity to the collective. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Ä s A reliance on shop-worn cliches and slogans that may be new in their level of en-



ergy but inevitably fall on deaf ears. The delusion that inspiration can bring clarity to the collective.





55 Æ p The enlightened Father figure whose recognized wisdom and powerful assertion Influence can mold a generation by its influence. The pressure to know that may result in influ-24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" ence and wisdom.



Ä s A tendency in power to want to enforce compliance to ensure lasting influence. The



pressure in knowing to resent challenges and demand acceptance.





44 Æ p The capacity of concentration to explore the depths of inner truth and maximize its Research application to fundamental principles. The pressure to know the fundamental princi-23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" ples.



Å s Where the tendency to expansion and integration leads to involving others in the



research and may end in a diversity of confusing applications. The illusion that col-laboration will enhance inspiration.





33 Interdependence It is exceedingly difficult for truth to stand alone. It is exceedingly difficult for truth to stand alone. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Á p The ability to establish relationships for the actualization of truths, and through their



nurturing and protective power to ensure a stable environment in which they can continue to grow. The pressure to know enhanced through collaboration.



Ä s With an abundance of energy and in possession of a truth, the tendency to leave



others behind or be crushed by their resistance. Impatience with others and the forsaking of relationships.





22 Á p The Moon exalted, and so gifted by this position a far-reaching, a nourishing influ-Natural brilliance ence, free of guile and powerfully attractive. A gift for inspiration that is both attractive 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" and beneficial to others.



Ä s That in early recognition of its influence becomes ego obsessed with maximizing its



effects. A delusion that any inspiration deserves recognition.





11 È p A natural psychic awareness that empowers principles of universalization. The pres-Occult knowledge sure to know the mysteries through esoterics. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ã s Where a reliance on secret knowledge increasingly demands ascetic withdrawal



and leads eventually to obscurity. Where the pressure to know the mysteries can be so strong that one can be eventually incapable of handling exoteric realities.