DEPTH Channel 48-16 The Wave Length A design of talent Harmonic Gate 16 Enthusiasm ‡ 18 v 48 w 57 Center Spleen ‡ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 09° 30' 00" ‡ - 15° 07' 30" ‡ ‡



The relationship between the 18th gate and the 48th, is between correction and depth. The Well is a resource, a pool. The awareness possibility is to store vital information as a pattern. Its depth, its quality, is dependent on what has resulted from the judgmental process. The Well opens up the possiblity of expression through its poten-tial connection to the throat. Without depth the common good can never be established. The Understanding Cir-cuit is our Logic process.

Its nature is determined by the Format of focus and concentration on patterns. The possibility to recognize in the now which patterns are vital to concentrate and focus on, is the foundation of Talent. Not suprisingly, it is through the Arts, that the need for correction in society is so often a theme. The Well is depth that is available in the mo-ment based on the potential to judge a situation in the now. The keynote of the Collective Circuits is sharing. This depth, whether vital information or trivial is always being shared.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF TENSION (3) DEPTH ENDEVOUR (2)





48





THE WELL 48





THE NECESSARY AND QUALITATIVE FOUNDATION THAT IS A PREREQUI-



SITE TO ESTABLISH THE COMMON GOOD .





66 Self-fulfillment An undiminishable resource. An undiminishable resource. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Ã p The valued center, that as it gives, it receives and thus can continue to give. A depth



and potential talent that is of value to others.



Á s A tendency to superficiality, that though generous and nurturing, will lack the inspi-



rational quality that can transform its gift into a common currency. Where the depth is limited the taste will be superficial and affect the quality of the possible talent.





55 Ä p The natural urge to apply energy to action. A taste for action. Action Á s An overreliance on the need for protection that in times of social renewal is ob-13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" sessed with the details of planning at the expense of action. Insecurity with one's



depth that can fail to take action.





44 À p The good sense to take advantage of restriction on short term activity to assess the Restructuring situation and restructure for long term goals that will facilitate development when 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" activity resumes. The awareness that depth and its possible expression will face



restrictions with a resulting taste for short term projects.



Í s A resistance to restructuring on speculation, with the tendency when activity re-



sumes to have to do so anyway. A taste for long term projects that will be frustrated in restraint.





33 Á p Symbolized by the 'no Moon' phase, where the potential of light is unrecognized, Incommunicado unavailable and unknowable. The redeeming value is in the transience of such a 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" stage which can give strength to those so afflicted. Where the development of taste



and depth is a long term process.



Â s The profound anxiety when a profound intelligence is forgotten in the wilderness.



The tendency in a long term process (development of taste and depth) to anxiety.





22 É p The awareness that to successfully establish a new form one cannot neglect the Degeneracy most positive attributes just to accommodate inferior elements. This would lead to 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" deterioration. A confidence in awareness to resist inferior influences.



Ã s The misguided urge for harmony that degenerates when associated with inferior



values into decadence. A lack of confidence in awareness that invites interference and decadence.





11 Á p An instinctive recognition of what is practical and deserves attention. A taste for Insignificance recognizing what is practical and deserves attention. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ä s An ego tendency to apply energy to trivial considerations. A taste for trivia.