CONTINUITY Channel 32-54 Transformation A design of being driven Harmonic Gate 54 The Marrying Maiden ‡ 57 v 32 w 50 Center Spleen ‡ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 20° 45' 00" ‡ - 26° 22' 30" ‡ ‡



The awareness potential is the instinct to adapt in the now without losing continuity. This is the gate of Duration, where all of our instinctive imprinting is rooted. By its nature, it is extremely conservative. Where the Sensitivity Stream is social and communal, the Instinctive Stream is social and individual. Rooted in the Splenic system, it is first and foremost about individual survival on the material plane. It will not rush to embrace a revolution, but if it succeeds and is established in the general community, then it will instinctly adapt, maintaining its basic nature. This is the potential awareness of what can or cannot be transformed. It is the brake on the drive of the 54. What is transformed and stored as instinctive memory, determines the ultimate strength of the Ego. Each gate of the Splenic Center has an underlying fear, here, it is the fear of failure. It can be a gate of prolonged indecision, the conservative reliance agonizing over the risks of being driven towards transformation.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF MAIA (3) CONSERVATION LIMITATION (2)





32





DURATION 32





THE ONLY THING WHICH ENDURES IS CHANGE.





66 Tranquillity The need to calmly face impermanence. The need to calmly face impermanence. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" É p An underlying acceptance of change that may or may not lead to tranquillity. The



instinctive awareness to accept change and transformation.



È s Impermanence as proof of meaninglessness with its attendant manifestations, de-



pression, delusion, and in the extreme, self-destruction. The fear engendered when change is experienced as impermanence, and the potential for depression.





55 Flexibility Easy adaption to circumstances. Easy adaption to circumstances. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" Á p The Moon exalted, where superficiality is a valuable tool that while masking the



inner light permits adaption to prevailing conditions. An instinct for adaption in times of change.



Ä s The urge to express oneself in direct and often violent rejection of conformity. The



potential of the instinct to reject adaption and conformity in times of change.





44 Å p Even in times of change certain underlying principles endure. The instinct to main-Right is might tain one's principles in times of change. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Æ s Where Jupiter will establish right action in the larger social realm, Saturn's will lead



to inner strength and endurance as long as it is not threatened from the outside. The instinct to maintain one's principles as long as one's security is not threatened.





33 Â p Indecision and persistent reevaluation, that only because of its basic intelligence Lack on continuity manages to endure. Indecision in times of transformation. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Å s An overreliance on traditionally legitimized standards that in times of change can be



totally out of step and suffer unexpected humiliation. A lack of instinct in times of transformation.





22 Ã p The control of power for the benefit and enhancement of harmony. The potential for Restraint transformation that may be beneficial to others. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" Å s A tendency in frustration, particularly from a position of strength, to social with-



drawal rather than persistent control. The frustration with controls or being con-trolled.





11 À p A life sustaining respect and attention to all aspects of a process. The potential to Conservation develop the instinct through detailed attention to a process. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ä s The uncontrollable urge to bypass essentials which inevitably leads to the disruption



of continuity. The fear of lack of potential, and the corresponding lack of attention.