CAUTION Channel 12-22 Openness The design of the social being Harmonic Gate 22 Grace ƒ 45 v 12 w 15 Center Throat ƒ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 22° 37' 30" ƒ - 28° 15' 00" ƒ ƒ



Powerful emotions and unique insights aren't for everyone. Standstill is the only gate in the Throat that is specifi-cally about not doing. It is a gate of social caution, of wariness about the collective. This is one of the three gates (40,33) of Aloneness. Since this is the gate of the mechanical expression of the Emoting Stream, its caution is naturally rooted in its mood. 'I try' is its voice but it is always a maybe, depending on the mood, the spirit. The indi-vidual always faces resistance and it is natural to be hesitant about social interaction. This gate is a destiny of 'familiarity bringing contempt'. The individual has its greatest impact as a stranger of consequence; releasing its awareness in the proper spirit and then withdrawing. As a Throat mechanic, this gate has the capacity to be ex-tremely articulate (when its in the mood). The power of Cultural Mutation is the mystery of Standstill.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EDEN (2) ARTICULATION EDUCATION





12





STANDSTILL 12





THE QUALITY OF RESTRAINT AND THE IMPORTANCE OF MEDITATION AND



INACTION IN CONFRONTING TEMPTATION.





66 Metamorphosis Faith in, and energy applied towards change and the emergence from stand- Faith in, and energy applied towards change and the emergence from stan d- 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" still. still.



À p Creative transcendence that when connected to the Harmonic Gate 22, through the



channel of Openness, leads to successful mutation and the emergence of a new social form. The capacity to mutate and express new social forms.



Í s A retrograde metamorphosis that has evolved a perfected adaption to standstill.



The perfected adaption to caution that can accept social limitations.





55 The pragmatist The success of restraint lies in not abandoning the lessons learnt when the The success of restraint lies in not abandoning the lessons learnt when the 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" phase ends. phase ends.



À p Light is always conscious of darkness. Caution as an expression of social experi-



ence.



Ä s The tendency to remember only the most painful lessons learnt. Caution which is



conditioned by the most painful social experiences.





44 The prophet The ability to foresee and plan for the end of standstill. The ability to foresee and plan for the end of standstill. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Í p The rousing of the stagnant for communal preparation. The ability to foresee and



express the need for social interaction and an end to caution.



Â s The voice in the wilderness. The expressed need for social interaction that falls on



deaf ears.





33 Confession The process of self--analysis. The process of self analysis. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" È p The recognition of inadequacies and the purging of unjustified vanities. The expres-



sion of inadequacies in social interaction that leads to self-analysis and caution.



Ä s A perverse and often exaggerated self-hatred. Inadequacies in social interaction that



lead to the expression of self-hatred.





22 Purification Rigorous withdrawal from negative influences. Rigorous withdrawal from negative influences. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Æ p The discipline to maintain a pure state. The expression of disciplined social caution.



Â s The boredom that arises out of lack of stimulation. Caution that manifests boredom



and the expressed desire for stimulus.





11 The monk Withdrawal that can only be maintained with communal support. Withdrawal that can only be maintained with communal support. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Ã p The beauty and harmony possible beyond the reach of temptation. The expression



of social withdrawal and its value when supported by others.



Å s Simon the Stylite, total and often absurd withdrawal. The absurd expression of social



caution and extreme withdrawal from emotional contact.