OPENNESS Channel 12-22 Openness The design of the social being Harmonic Gate 12 Standstill Œ 63 22 Center Solar Plexus v w 36 Œ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 17° 00' 00" Œ - 22° 37' 30" Œ



The potential to realize the spirit becomes the possibility to share that spirit with others. The role of the individual is incomplete without social skills. On the Mental plane through the 43rd gate, the individual has the conceptual capacity to communicate its insight to others. The task is made more difficult by its strangeness. The Channel of Openness provides the individual with the gift for public access. The possibility of this gate is to empower others with the individual emotion. It is the quality of the emotional spirit which will condition how receptive the collective will be to the individual awareness. The Knowing process requires a certain amount of social interaction to dis-seminate its individuality towards the goal of Mutation. Grace is where the spirit of the knower is released in a wave.

The Sense of Hearing is associated with the Awareness possibility gates of the Knowing Circuit. The right Ear, the existential ear through the 57th gate; the Inner Ear, the inner voice of the individual through the 43rd gate; the left Ear is through Grace. What you hear with your left Ear, you hear in a Wave! If you listen to the telephone with the left Ear, you will only hear the good or bad of the hope & pain wave, the rest will come later.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF RULERSHIP GRACE INFORMING





22





GRACE 22





A QUALITY OF BEHAVIOUR BEST SUITED IN HANDLING MUNDANE AND



TRIVIAL SITUATIONS .





66 Maturity The alignment with experience of form with substance. The alignment with experience of form with substance. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" À p Natural and evident leadership and authority. The possibility that experience in so-



cial interaction will result in a leadership capacity.



Ä s The alignment tends to express itself in nonconformist modes. The possibility that



experience in social interaction will result in a non-conformist expression of open-ness.





55 Directness The disregard of form when required. The disregard of form when required. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Å p The power inherent in higher principles to successfully transgress behavioral codes.



The possibility through emotional awareness to behave individualistically in social interaction.



Ä s A tendency to create embarrassing situations, and though invariably successful, the



often resulting reputation for crudity and impudence. The possibility that individual behaviour in social interaction will generate negative projections from others.





44 Sensitivity The modification of behaviour to enrich interactions. The modification of behaviour to enrich interactions. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" È p A mediumistic simplicity that rejects elaborate rituals. The possibility of social open-



ness through the rejection of formality.



Ä s An over-reliance on the mechanics of style that can abort potentially significant rela-



tionships. The limitation of social openness through the need for formality.





33 The enchanter Perfected grace. Perfected grace. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" Æ p Form as a definition and actualization of substance. The possibility for perfected



openness through the alignment of emotional energy and awareness.



Ä s Unconscious grace. An innate openness.





22 Charm school The belief that style can mask nature. The belief that style can mask nature. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" À p The ability to successfully delude oneself and others. The possibility to attract others



with an emotional style.



Å s The legalization of form over substance. Where the style is energized at the expense



of awareness.





11 Á p The ability to accept and enjoy a subordinate position. The emotinal awareness to Second class ticket enjoy a subordinate position. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" Ä s The inevitable humiliation that comes with claiming a first class seat with a second



class ticket. Where the emotional energy challenges the awareness and can result in humiliation socially.