SPIRIT Channel 55-39 Emoting A design of moodiness Harmonic Gate 39 Obstruction Œ 30 v 55 w 37 Center Solar Plexus Œ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 00° 07' 30" Œ - 05° 45' 00" Œ



The power of the Emotional awareness and its potential to destabilize is the testing ground in Humanity's search for the spirit. Spirit is not a concept. It is not an instinct. It is an emotion. The potential for spirit and its manifesta-tion lie in the 55th gate. As the Rave I'Ching says, Abundance is strictly a question of spirit. It is through this gate that the limitations of emotions are experienced. This is the gate of 'David's Cup'. Abundance is the microcosm of life in form. The cup is always present and there is always something in the cup (our lives) and in the wave of the emotions the cup is perceived as either half-full or half-empty. Abundance is a gate of potential awareness. When the life is experienced emotionally as either this or that, this is not aware. It is the Wave frequency of the emotional Hope to Pain cyle. Moods are the manifestation of this frequency. The individual finds the spirit in the emotional now. The wave is made up of many points in the geometry. At any given point, Spirit is not a matter of compari-son, just the wonder that the cup exists at all.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SLEEPING PHOENIX MOODS SPIRIT





55





ABUNDANCE 55





ABUNDANCE IS STRICTLY A QUESTION OF SPIRIT.





66 Æ p Acquisition obsession that though alienating, is still indirectly beneficial materially to Selfishness others. The possibility of finding the spirit through materialism. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Á s Where the material abundance exists, but no one gets to share its light. The 'no



Moon' phase. The possibility that materialism becomes obsessive with a 'mean' spirit that will not share.





55 Ç p The unusual ability in a position of power to accept advice and transform it innova-Growth tively. This gift in a position of power allows one to continue to lead rather than be-03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" ing perceived as being led. The emotional strength and spirit derived from positions



of power.



À s An integrative openness that in its broad acceptance of advice may be eventually



eclipsed. An emotional openness where the spirit is at risk from conditioning.





44 Å p The establishment of a framework that balances principles with energy and leads Assimilation inevitably to expansion and prosperity. The possible spirit that comes when emo-02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" tional awareness and energy are balanced and principled.



Ä s Boundless energy that knows no restraint. Boundless energy that ignores aware-



ness at the risk of the spirit.





33 Innocence Here, 'I was only following orders', is a genuine defence. Here, 'I was only following orders', i s a genuine defence. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Æ p When the form is correct and attempts at actualization have been disciplined and



within guidelines, failure cannot be personally attributed. The emotional possibilty to recognize that despite one's best efforts, failure is possible and does not need to affect the spirit.



Ä s Mars in detriment, where a struggle against conformity or individual initiative can



bring a superior to ruin while safely hiding behind his shield. The energy to selfishly protect one's spirit at the expense of others.





22 Distrust Abundance hampered by slander or gossip. Abundance hampered by slander or gossip. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ã p The gift of being able to penetrate to the center that may demonstrate effectively



through its relating talents, that its trustfullness is genuine. Emotional stability and the strength of the spirit is dependent on being trusted by others.



Í s The direct challenge to the slanderers who will always have the advantage of quot-



ing the Bard: 'Methinks he doth protest too much.' Only continued example can overcome distrust. The emotional drive to insist on trustworthiness that does not guarantee its acceptance by others or benefits the spirit.





11 Å p The expansion of activity through cooperation with powerful forces through princi-Co-operation pled actions that guarantee continued support and engender prosperity. The poten-00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" tial to find the spirit through co-operation with powerful forces.



Ã s The concentration on harmonic relationships with powerful forces that provide for



continuity but not necessarily advancement. The potential to harmonize with power-ful forces but not necessarily for the benefit of the spirit.