VALUES Channel 50-27 Preservation A design of custodianship Harmonic Gate 27 Nourishment ‡ 32 v 50 w 28 Center Spleen ‡ Circuit Defence





Astrologic Position 26° 22' 30" ‡ - 02° 00' 00" ˆ ˆ



The body that the 6th gate 'builds' out of intimacy, the 50th gate 'guards'and maintains. This is the gate of Values. It is the gate of Tribal Law. It is the awareness possibility of the three Streams of the Splenic Awareness; Taste, Intuition and Instinct. It is the key gate in our well being process. It is the heart of our personal immunity and our capacity to both assess and defend. The expression of this capacity is through values. It is our values that are the foundation of our defense. The Defense Circuit is our sexual Circuit. It is the core of the Tribal process. Each inti-macy that results in birth demands that the offspring of the union are nurtured into adulthood (27) and guided by values (50). It is this gate which establishes the rules of caring. Coming out of our most ancient awareness, it is a fundamental ingredient of Human survival. Each of the gates of the Splenic Center have an underlying fear, here it is the fear of responcibility.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF LAWS (3) VALUES WISHES (2)





50





THE CAULDRON 50





THE VALUE OF HISTORICAL CONTINUITY WHOSE TRADITIONAL VALUES



SERVE AND ENRICH THE PRESENT AND THE FUTURE.





66 Ã p The gift in a position of power to maintain harmony even in severity. The strength to Leadership maintain one's values with vigour and continue to have harmonic relationships with 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" others.



Á s An inherent moodiness, that in a position of power may at times alienate or offend



and effect overall efficiency. The strength to mainrtain one's values but at the ex-pense of harmonic relationships.





55 Consistency When continuity has brought success, it should not be tampered with. When continuity has brought success, it should not be tampered with. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Æ p The disciplined and natural conservatism to avoid unnecessary change. The con-



servative awareness that basic principles should not be abandoned casually.



Ä s A perverse reaction to rebel against the methodology of one's very success. When



effectively stimulated, the drive to rebel against basic principles.





44 Corruption The lack of enriching values. The lack of enriching values. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Æ p The malefic gift of turning inferior values into material success. Given this difficult



position, Saturn's exaltation is, that its actions are limited to selfishness and unsa-vouriness rather than criminality. The capacity to maintain one's strength despite inferior values.



Ä s With such energy and no traditional values, the worst can be expected. The poten-



tial disregard of values that may lead to corruption or the breakdown of the defense system.





33 Á p The Moon exalted, that when unable to make it alone will naturally align itself with Adaptability nurturing and protective forces. The awareness that to maintain one's principles and 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" values the support of others is necessary.



Â s A resentment when its natural mental gifts are ignored and is forced to curry favour



in order to survive. Discomfort with the awareness that one cannot stand alone by one's principles.





22 À p The strength of purpose that can enjoy overcoming adversity to achieve its goals. Determination The strength derived from maintaining one's values in the face of opposition or con-27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" ditioning.



Ã s A discomfort with adversity that may lead to determined withdrawal. A lack of



strength, where values are threatened by opposition or conditioning.





11 The immigrant Humbleness of origin that benefits rather than restricts destiny. Humbleness of origin that benefits rather than restricts destiny. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Ä p The desire to be effective and successful that builds on the most fundamental



strengths while it refines its nature. The awareness that the growth and refinement of values will benefit destiny.



Ã s A dissatisfaction with/or embarrassment with origins, that makes an obsession of



refinement. A dissatisfaction with original values that demands refinement.