SEXUALITY Channel 59-6 Mating A design focused on reproduction Harmonic Gate 6 Conflict † 29 v 59 40 Center Sacral w † Circuit Defence





Astrologic Position 00° 07' 30" † - 05° 45' 00" † †



It is through this gate that our sexual types are defined. This is the Sacral power to be able to break down barriers. When the possibility of bonding and the fuel of expressed sexuality are connected, defined, we have the Channel of Mating, a design focused on reproduction. Here is the dynamic power of sex drive. When this channel is de-fined, all love making can result in fertilization! This is the most intimate of the three social channels. (The other two are, Openness 12/22 and Community 37/40) It also carries a different meaning when it connects together people who are not lovers. This is a channel of intimacy, the need for a deep connection to others and the result-ing fertility can be applied to projects and careers and is not limited to reproduction, though that is its primary function. It is also an energy which can be confusing to others. The 2nd and 4th lines below, are often assumed to be sexual, when they obviously are not, leading to conflicts and all sorts of projection.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SLEEPING PHOENIX (3) STRATEGY SPIRIT (2)





59





DISPERSION 59





THE ABILITY TO BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO ACHIEVE UNION.





66 The one night The tendency based on personality or circumstances to accept only temp The tendency based on personality or circumstances to accept only tempo- o- rary unions that may be otherwise impossible or dangerous to continue. rary unions that may be otherwise impossible or dangerous to continue. stand Ã p The perfected relationship whether for a moment or an eternity. The power for inti- 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" macy regardless of conditions.



Â s The basic drive to move on, that seeks impermanency as a matter of course and



not in response to circumstances. The drive for sexual and intimate diversity.





55 À p The power to use love to break down any barrier. Given the Sun's 'lightness' there is The femme fatale no negative connotation inherent in this description. The power of sexuality to attract or Casanova others. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Ç s Uranus in detriment, where the negative potential of this power becomes evident.



The Gigolo, the adventuress. The power of sexuality expressed as sexual power.





44 Ã p The dropping of barriers to union to establish a universal union. The power derived Brother-from non-sexual intimacy. hood/sisterhood Â s An intellectual understanding that is rarely put into action. Where the idea cannot 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" restrain the sex drive.





33 Æ p Saturn exalted, where the search for identity and security can only be achieved Openness through the dropping of barriers, in order to define oneself through union. Where 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" one is empowered through union and intimacy with others.



Ä s Where openness is transformed into promiscuity and its attendant problems. Where



the drive for empowerment, through union and intimacy, can lead to promiscuity.





22 Shyness Self--imposed barriers. Self imposed barriers. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ç p A preferred and natural separateness that protects against the inevitable instability



engendered by union. The restriction of the sex drive to maintain separateness.



É s A calculated shyness, rooted in deep psychological barriers, that even in dynamic



individuals will always restrict interaction. Infertility, rooted psychologically or biologi-cally, that conditions the drive for separateness.





11 À p The authority and vitality that in understanding purpose and direction can recognize The preemptive and eliminate barriers before they become impregnable. The power of fertility to strike impregnate. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Â s In this position, the ability and intelligence to recognize, but a deep indecisiveness



about how and when to act. The potential of fertility limited by uncertainty.