FORMULIZATION Channel 63-4 Logic A design of mental ease mixed with doubt Harmonic Gate 63 After Completion … 7 v 4 29 Center Ajna w … Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 18° 52' 30" … - 24° 30' 00" … …



This is a gate of good fortune. It is clear that the most grounded path is based on logic. To use logic, that is to be able to substantiate things in fact, protects one from misjudgment. And this gate through the Understanding cir-cuit is related to the Channel of Judgment. The real difference lies in the frequency. Splenic awareness operates in the now, but the mind's frequency is over all time. The pressure of a doubt or suspicion can last a lifetime. The I'Ching name for this gate is Youthful Folly. The potential is to have an answer to the doubt. A Stream of Aware-ness has four stages in its process. An answer, a formula is only a potential. Many answers are sheer foolishness. A formula is the beginning of a logical awareness. It is worthy of remembering that an answer is not necessarily a solution or a fact.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EXPLANATION (3) FORMULIZATION REVOLUTION (2)





4





YOUTHFUL FOLLY 4





THE ENERGY TO BEGUILE AND SUCCEED DESPITE IGNORANCE. FREE-



DOM FROM RETRIBUTION.





66 Excess Repeated and conscious abuse of norms will not escape discipline. Repeated and conscious abuse of norms will not escape discipline. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Â p The development through experience of techniques to apply self-restraint. The po-



tential in a logical process to recognize when the understanding is not complete and have the patience to wait out the process.



Ä s The gall to accept punishment as the price of excess. Despite recognizing the in-



completeness a lack of patience with the process.





55 Seduction Allowing others to assume responsibility as a shield against potential pun- Allowing others to assume responsibility as a shield against potential pu n- 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" ishment. ishment.



Å p Unearned reward and recognition. The potential to succeed through the under-



standing of others.



É s A life of lip service to antiquated and unsatisfying values. Cynicism. The potential for



cynicism that comes with always having to acknowledge the understanding of oth-ers.





44 The liar Role playing as an art form. The actor. Role playing as an art form. The actor. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" À p Fantasy protects and nurtures a sense of purpose and reason no matter how mis-



guided. The potential to find or illustrate the formulas through fantasy.



Æ s Time always brings humiliation. The potential danger to see the fantasy as fact.





33 Irresponsibility The general refusal to apply oneself diligently when one can get by with The ge neral refusal to apply oneself diligently when one can get by with 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" much less effort. much less effort.



Ã p Where art is more valued then the artist. The potential to enjoy the formulas with no



regard to their practical application.



É s The rationalization of irresponsibility as an act of refocalization. The potential to jus-



tify such a process in order to maintain it.





22 Acceptance The recognition of limitation in oneself and others leads to tolerance and the The recognition of limitation in oneself and others leads to tolerance and the 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" suspension of judgment. suspension of judgment.



Á p The glorification of feelings. The mother which always pardons the errant child. The



potential to recognize that not everyone can understand,



Ä s The assertion of the ego at the expense of others' failures. The potential to take ad-



vantage of the lack of understanding in others.





11 Pleasure Ultimate pleasure cannot be achieved without perfect timing. Ultimate pleasure cannot be achieved without perfect timing. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" Á p The instinct to know the right moment and circumstances where pleasure is re-



warded and not punished. The potential to recognize that there is a natural timing to the understanding process.



Í s Timing is not a product of discipline. Exaggerated self-discipline leads to the abuse



of pleasure. The potential to recognize but the urge to force the timing.