INSIGHT Channel 43-23 Structuring A design of individuality (Genius to Freak) Harmonic Gate 23 Splitting Apart ˆ 1 v 43 14 Center Ajna w ˆ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 18° 52' 30" ˆ - 24° 30' 00" ˆ ˆ



The Knowing Circuit is linked to our sense of Hearing. Breakthrough is not to be confused with the so-called 'Third-Eye' or the 'sight' in insight. This is the gate of the Inner Ear. Nothing is more difficult for individuals with this gate, than to listen. They are the most difficult people to teach. It is not a fault or a problem but their genetic pro-tection from undue influence. To teach such a person, one must be simple and begin at the beginning. The Inner Ear listens only to its own 'inner' voice. This is the only possibility to transform the rationalized inner truth into an insight, a unique perspective. This is the gate of Individual Mental Knowing. It is not backed up by facts and may be merely delusion. It takes fortitude, strength even courage to stand behind it. The gates of possibility are the final shaping of an awareness. Once fully conceptualized, they await only access to the Throat and manifestation.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EXPLANATION (4) INSIGHT DEDICATION (2)





43





BREAKTHROUGH 43





IN ORDER FOR ACHIEVEMENT TO BE MAINTAINED A NEW ORDER MUST BE



FAIRLY ESTABLISHED.





66 À p Actualization and centering, that in breakthrough naturally establish both internally Breakthrough and externally a new order. Unique knowing that is both personally and collectively 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" of value.



Ä s An ego tendency that in breakthrough sees justification of its lesser attributes and



carries them over into the new order. Where the value of knowing is more important then other aspects of the life.





55 Á p The step by step adaptation to relationships which hinder breakthrough through Progression practical actions which will not jeopardize eventual success. The gift of knowing 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" when an unique insight can be shared with effectively with others.



Ã s A tendency to concentrate on harmonizing relationships that tends to strengthen the



position of restrictive forces rather than benefiting breakthrough. An over-reliance on the receptivity of others that turns harmony into the conditioner of individual expres-sion.





44 Â p The overreliance and stubborn obsession with one's mental abilities in the face of The one-track mind recurring obstacles. This design, given Mercurial mental gifts, may though rarely 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" succeed. A stubborn reliance on one's unique insights that demands focused mental



ability to be properly conceptualized.



Å s A belief in inherent right action based on limited knowledge that shuns advice. The



vanity to attempt expression without depth.





33 É p The powerful drive for regeneration that will, when breakthrough is threatened, use Expediency any means, align with any force and endure any condemnation to achieve the goal. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" A certainty in knowing which can withstand condemnation.



Á s An oversensitivity to condemnation, that may preclude justified expediency and



result in failure. Individual insight abandoned in the face of condemnation.





22 É p The maintenance of specialized attitudes which promote breakthrough. Unique Dedication mental habits and thought processes which promote insight. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" Á s A dedication to action, that when actualization is in sight may become incautious.



The urge for expression that will abandon its normal processes when an opportunity arises.





11 É p The recognition that new forms cannot be established until resistance has been Patience eliminated. The depth necessary to bring into form an individual insight. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" Ã s An impatience to enjoy the sweets of accomplishment that inevitably leaves a sour



taste in the mouth. A delight in the insight but a lack of depth to establish it.