BEGINNINGS Channel 53-42 Maturation A design of balanced development Harmonic Gate 42 Increase „ 39 v 53 w 62 Center Root „ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 15° 07' 30" „ - 20° 45' 00" „



This is the fuel of the maturation process. The Sensing circuit is all about transition and change. The 53rd gate of Development is the fuel of steadfastness. It is the energy to start a new cycle regardless of the changes that its brings. Like the other Format gates out of the Root, this gate carries the potential of depression. The pressure is to begin and ultimately complete a cycle, but without definition to the harmonic gate, 42, there is only stress and frustration. This is an energy which is always seeking new beginnings. The entire Sensing Circuit demands pa-tience. The pressure to begin is not an awareness. It is a mechanic. The pressure rides a wave. It is always pre-sent. The intensity to start one moment will fall away in the next moment. Wait and See. There is no sense starting what one is not going to finish. This defeats the entire purpose of the Abstract process.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PENETRATION (2) BEGINNINGS CYCLES





53





DEVELOPMENT 53





DEVELOPMENT AS A STRUCTURED PROGRESSION THAT IS BOTH STEAD-



FAST AND ENDURING .





66 Á p The successful utilization of the completion of a stage in development, that by its Phasing evident success and value can be used as an example to attract support for the 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" next stage. The energy to attract support for beginnings based on the success of the



past.



É s A tendency in this position, to hide success, in the perverse fear that the success



will either create excessive demands or supporters of the original process will end their support upon completion. The pressure to hide beginnings in fear of losing past support.





55 È p The underlying and often psychic recognition of the intrinsic values of development, Assertion that even in periods of isolation, has the assertiveness to maintain direction. Its very 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" power garners continued support even from those who are basically opposed. The



pressure to recognize the value of development and the energy for beginnings re-gardless of circumstances.



Í s An over-assertiveness, that rather than applied to maintaining support in the face of



opposition and isolation, may actually strengthen the opposing forces by its atti-tude. Where the energy for beginnings attracts the very forces that can abort them.





44 Á p The ability to maintain the strength of one's individuality in complex and often awk-Assuredness ward situations, that ensure continued security and development. The pressure to 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" maintain one's individuality in confused beginnings.



Ã s The persistent difficulty with embarrassing or awkward situations where normal



emotional reactions may prove detrimental. Individual pressure for beginnings that creates awkward and sometimes embarrassing situations.





33 Á p In its most natural position, the concentration on avoiding conflict to ensure protec-Practicality tion and continued development. The pressure to eliminate conflict in order to de-17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" velop.



Ä s The unconscious provoking of conflict that logically threatens security and devel-



opment. Energy which provokes conflict and threatens development.





22 Momentum Success breeds success. Success breeds success. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Á p The protection of early success nurtures further achievement. The pressure to start



something new based on past success.



Ä s A tendency with early success to haste and imprudent action. The pressure based



on success to be impatient for something new.





11 È p The dissolution of old forms but not at the expense of valued components that will Accumulation be retained and transformed. The pressure to begin something new, not from 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" scratch but based on the foundation of the old.



Ã s Development hampered by criticism and the tendency to withdraw rather than make



use of these experiences. The difficulty in starting something new because of the criticism that accompanied the old.