CORRECTION Channel 18-58 Judgment A design of insatiability Harmonic Gate 58 The Joyous ‡ 46 v 18 w 48 Center Spleen ‡ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 03° 52' 30" ‡ - 09° 30' 00" ‡ ‡



Taste, the focus of judgment on dissatisfaction. This gate is where we receive our deepest conditioning from our parents. In the I'Ching this gate is referred to as Work on what has been spoilt. It is through this gate that a woman is conditioned by her Father, and where a man is conditioned by his Mother. The Oedipus / Electra Gate. This isn't to say that this is a negative. It is the gate of essential learning and as a result is the gate of Correction. This is where we learn generationally, from parent to child. The 18th gate activated in a chart is an indication that there has been deep conditioning from the parent. It is through this 'imprinting' that a certain standard has been estab-lished. These conditioned standards will form the basis for comparison and will be applied to everything; lovers, work, oneself, and the reality despite circumstances will always invite the potential of Correction. The very vitality of this channel denies resignation, and the need to correct, to improve is a life long process. Without the dissatis-faction and the drive for perfection which hones the critical skills, there is no understanding. Here is where the potential of Taste is born.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF SERVICE (3) CORRECTION UPHEAVEL (2)





18





WORK ON WHAT HAS BEEN 18



SPOILT





THE VIGILANCE AND DETERMINATION TO UPHOLD AND DEFEND BASIC



AND FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS .





66 Buddhahood The perfected form. The perfected form. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Ä p The Buddha state of the eternal child and the energy to find new horizons to avoid



stasis. The potential of the perfected form through correction.



Á s The mundane application of the above. The ability to tap public opinion and share



methodology. The potential to share the values of the correction with others.





55 Therapy The strength to recognize a problem and to accept that it is beyond one's The strength to recognize a problem and to accept that it is beyond one's 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" power to solve it alone. power to solve it alon e.



Æ p The wisdom to both seek and provide guidance. The potential for correction and



judgment through relationships.



Ç s The mental patient. Chronic instability and potential madness. Where relationships



cannot assist in correction the potential of mental instability.





44 The incompetent Difficulties as a result of inadequacies that cannot be resolved because of Difficulties as a result of inadequacies that cannot be resolved because of 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" inadequacies. inadequacies.



Í p Given this negative position, survival through suffering. The inability to correct and



its potential for suffering.



Â s Indecision and anxiety and no escape from misfortune. The demands of correction



and its potential to generate anxiety.





33 The zealot The energetic obsession to clean house. The energetic obsession to clean house. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" È p The dissolution of old forms at an acceptable price. An obsession with correction



and its critical potential.



Å s Rigid judgmentation that creates as many problems as it solves. An obsession with



correction that does not bring satisfaction.





22 Terminal disease The recognition that what has been spoilt is irreversible. The recognition that what has been spoilt is irreversible. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" É p Acceptance and strength derived from a faith in spiritual regeneration. The accep-



tance that there is no potential for correction.



Á s The futile raging against the wind. The refusal to accept that there is no potential for



correction.





11 Conservatism The adherence to traditional patterns despite and/or in spite of changing cir- The adherence to traditional patterns despite and/or in spite of changing ci r- 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" cumstances. cumstances.



Í p Gradual modification to avoid eventual upheaval. The potential to correct through



gradual modification of judgments.



Å s The Patriarch whose rigidity guarantees deterioration. The potential to refuse to cor-



rect.