GROWTH Channel 42-53 Maturation A design of balanced development Harmonic Gate 53 Development Q 51 v 42 w 3 Center Sacral Q Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 20° 45' 00" Q - 26° 22' 30" Q



This is the gate of maximizing the potential of beginnings through expansion. This is also the gate of bringing things to a close, so that the next step can be taken. The power to complete a cycle is the heart of the growth process. One thing at a time is its mantra. Here, in this Format, is the core of the Abstract process. Since there is no Splenic Center activation in this circuit, the cyclic process can be unhealthy and is always dominated by the presence of fear. Without the Spleen, the recognition of the essential value of the now is missing and yet for the stability of the abstract way, it must be accepted as essential. We exist in the now anyway, despite our perspec-tives. The change of the cyclical process is not the goal. The 'grail' is the experience. The abstract Being must be absorbed in the experience of the now, in order to reflect on the experience later. The potential of Growth is its power to mature through completion of each cycle.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF MAIA COMPLETION LIMITATION





42





INCREASE 42





THE EXPANSION OF THE RESOURCES WHICH MAXIMIZES THE DEVELOP-



MENT OF FULL POTENTIAL.





66 Á p A natural and instinctive nurturing of others. The power to share the process of Nurturing growth with others. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Æ s A restrictive and malefic materialism that is self-alienating and encourages aggres-



sion. The refusal to share the benefits of growth with others.





55 À p The fulfillment and actualization of purpose as a natural path whose reward is a Self-actualization healthy sense of self, rather than the power and influence that naturally follow. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" Growth that is self-fulfilling and naturally leads to influence.



Ã s Self-actualization as a strictly inner experience that may demand or result in a reclu-



sive nature. Inner growth that empowers reclusiveness.





44 Á p The quintessential manifestation of the mediator. The maturity to bring growth The middle man through mediation. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Ã s Where the gift to establish and maintain relationships is ill-suited in this position to



act in mediation where harmony must take a back seat to pragmatism. A lack of maturity where the power to harmonize distorts mediation and limits growth.





33 Trial and error In times of increase, mistakes are a natural part of the process. In times of increase, mistakes are a natural part of the process. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Ä p The energy and assertion to turn mistakes into advantages. The power to accept



mistakes as part of growth.



Á s A moodiness, that in error may succumb to brooding and unnecessary caution.



Mistakes give power to moodiness and caution.





22 À p Recognition and acute capitalization of trends. Power for growth through participat-Identification ing in trends. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" Ã s An ascetically motivated withdrawal in times of progressive change. Growth which



stops in reaction to trends or change.





11 À p The ability when surplus resources are available to extend one's activities beyond Diversification their normal scope. Growth through expansion particularly when defined to the root. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ã s A tendency when surplus resources are available to centrifugal application. Deca-



dence. Too much expansion can lead to decadence.