ACCEPTANCE Channel 60-3 Mutation Energy that fluctuates and initiates. Harmonic Gate 3 Difficulty at the Beginning Š 61 v 60 41 Center Root w Š Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 26° 22' 30" Š - 02° 00' 00" ‹ ‹



This is the energy of limitation itself. This gate is the pulsing pressure to mutate. In terms of the collective, the Knowing Circuit is the experimental field where mutations can develop that may or may not be of benefit to the whole. This possibility of mutation is grounded in the release of limited amounts of energy. This limitation, the pulse, manifests as power bursts rather then sustained flows. Knowing, is there and it is not. The mystery of mu-sic, as Miles Davis the jazz composer noted, is in the space between the notes. It is in the 'space' that mutation takes place.

Acceptance of limitation is the heart of this process, otherwise this energy can manifest as chronic depression.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF LAWS (4) LIMITATION DISTRACTION (2)





60





LIMITATION 60





THE ACCEPTANCE OF LIMITATION IS THE FIRST STEP IN TRANSCEN-



DENCE.





66 Ç p The intuitive intellect to recognize when absolute rigidity is essential but with innova-Rigidity tive applications to lessen its severity. A fixed energy that is unusual in its capacity 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" for restraint.



Â s The dogmatic, principled and carefully reasoned understanding that is uncom-



promizing in its severity and often coldly brutal in operation. An uncompromizing and severe acceptance of restraint. So uncompromizing that the restraint may be-come unbearable and lead to chronic depression.





55 È p The awareness that the destruction of the old limitations simply creates new ones. Leadership This results in behavioural patterns that demonstrate this understanding through 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" actions and enhances leadership potential. The energy to handle a lifelong process



of dealing with limitations.



Å s Where the natural desire for expansion, when limitations are essential, creates con-



fusion from the top. Expansive energy that cannot handle limitations.





44 Â p The reasoned and intelligent maximization of potential within limitations. The maxi-Resourcefulness mization of potential within limitation. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ã s A tendency in times of limitation to seek the inner meaning of the restriction rather



than using its gifts to find a harmonic application within the limitation. The former leads to withdrawal and the latter to transcendence. The energy to know rather than accept limitation at the expense of possible mutation, leading to depression.





33 Æ p Enlightened self-interest, that naturally handles restrictions and limitations ensuring Conservatism identity and security. The energy to maintain identity and security despite limitations. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" Ä s Ego gratifying self-interest that ignores limitations and suffers predictably. Energy



which ignores limitations and pays the price.





22 Æ p The understanding of the nature of limitation, to accept its restraints when neces-Decisiveness sary and thus be able to take advantage of opportunities when they arise. Energy 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" which can adapt to restraint.



Í s An adaptation to restraint that becomes habitual and maintains the nature of the



limitation even when it no longer exists. The energy for adaptation that can get stuck without eventual mutation.





11 Ã p The ability to maintain inner harmony when confronted by external limitations. Har-Acceptance monic energy that can deal with external limitations. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Â s The drive for diversity, that when limited can become restless and agitated. Restless



energy when confronted with external limitations.