RECOGNITION OF FEELINGS Channel 30-41 Recognition A design of focused energy Harmonic Gate 41 Decrease ‹ 49 v 30 w 55 Center Solar Plexus ‹ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 24° 30' 00" ‹ - 00° 07' 30" Œ



This gate of Feeling is the Emotional equivalent of mental realization. Like its mirror, the 18th gate, the gate of conditioning from the parents , the 30th is the gate of Fate. Feeling is a thirst for destiny and a hunger for change. Just as judgment leads to the conceptual potential to correct, the recognized feeling leads to the conceptual po-tential for change. However, there are distinct differences. Judgment and the capacity to correct take place in the now or not. Recognition of the potential for change takes place in the wave. The emotional wave moves from pain to hope, and the true potential of emotional awareness lies between these highly energetic poles. It is important to realize, that only emotional awareness has direct access to the Throat that is by its very nature energized. The feeling for change must move through the wave. The feeling of Pain which initiates the yearning for change and a cursing of the Fates. The feeling of Hope which initiates the yearning for change and prays to the Fates. The po-tential awareness that can recognize the feeling and leaves its outcome in the hands of the Fates.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONTAGEN FATES INDUSTRY





30





THE CLINGING FIRE 30





FREEDOM RECOGNIZED AS AN ILLUSION AND LIMITATION ACCEPTED AS A



FATE.





66 Enforcement The discipline to maintain right action. The discipline to maintain right action. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ä p The assertiveness to purge the inferior while accepting to lead the weak. The



strength to eliminate negative feelings.



Á s An inherent peacefulness that all too often will abide the presence of inferior forces.



A lack of strength in eliminating negative feelings.





55 Irony Recognition and dedication to transitory goals. Recognition and dedication to transitory goals. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" Å p The strength derived from knowledge and experience that two steps forward and



one step back, is still one step forward. Each new feeling brings back an old feeling before progress can take place.



É s The anger engendered by the irony, frustration with its limitations and a desire to



eliminate the entire process. Frustration and anger with the old feelings brought into the emotional awareness with each new experience.





44 Burnout An unrealistic pace that begs misfortune. An unrealistic pace that begs misfortune. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" É p A compulsive and hyperactive nature that carries all the earmarks of burnout but



doesn't necessarily arrive at it. A positive outcome is often assisted through analy-sis. Highly energized feelings that may lead to emotional collapse.



Å s Uncontrollable expansion with the inevitable bursting of the bubble. Uncontrollable



feelings and accompanying emotional outbursts.





33 Resignation The acceptance of what is. The acceptance of what is. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" É p The awareness and manifestation of the law of regeneration. The laws of Karma,



reincarnation and resurrection. The feeling to accept what is.



Å s The tendency by its very knowledge to encourage or avoid despair. The positive or



negative feelings which come with acceptance of what is.





22 Pragmatism The balance between extremes. The balance between extremes. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" À p The productive application of energy without wastage. Not wasting energy on feel-



ings.



Ä s Overaggressiveness that chafes against limitations. Feelings which demand energy.





11 Composure Balance in the face of disorder. Balance in the face of disorder. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" À p The maximization of limitation in all cases. Stability through feelings, no matter what



the situation.



Å s The ability to maintain composure but at the expense of progress. Balanced through



feelings but unable to let go of them.