RATIONALIZING Channel 61-24 Awareness A design of the thinker Harmonic Gate 61 Inner Truth ‚ 27 v 24 2 Center Ajna w ‚ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 07° 37' 30" ‚ - 13° 15' 00" ‚



The Return is a conceptualizing gate. Individual conceptualizing is a complex process. The role of the mental indi-viduality is to find a way to communicate a unique awareness to the Collective mind. Before any attempt at com-munication is possible, the inspiration must be given a rational form. The word rationalizing often has a negative conotation attached to it which is a projection of the collective on the individual. The Return is just that, returning over and over again, what is poetically called pondering, until the energy is transformed into a rational form. In the symmetry of this circuit, there are three gates of Awareness potential; 28: The Risk Taker and 55: the gate of the half empty or half full cup, Abundance. The design to rationalize is a risk and a test of the Spirit. There is no proof, logical collective or experience, abstract collective, there is only the potential that what has been rationalized may be a true knowing.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE FOUR WAYS RATIONALIZATION INCARNATION





24





RETURNING 24





THE NATURAL AND SPONTANEOUS PROCESS OF TRANSFORMATION AND



RENEWAL.





66 The gift horse The possibility of being deaf when opportunity knocks. The possibility of being deaf when opportunity knocks. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Å p The conscious participation in a process that prepares one for easy identification of



opportunity. Identification and focus with the rational thought process.



É s Innate suspicion which leads inevitably to lost opportunities. Often irrational suspi-



cion that distorts the focus and can lead to missed opportunities.





55 Confession The courage to admit the mistakes of the past. The courage to admit the mistakes of the past. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Á p The practical value of starting with a clean slate, symbolized by the New Moon.



Rational correction that opens the way to new possibilities.



Ä s The tendency to try to minimalize past mistakes through rationalization; turning con-



fession into justification. Irrational justification of past mistakes.





44 The hermit Transformation that can only take place in isolation. Transformation that can only take place in isolation. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Æ p The discipline and focus that assures renewal. Aloneness enriches the potential for



rational thought.



È s The tendency in isolation to live in a fantasy world. Aloneness encourages the po-



tential of illusion or delusion.





33 The addict The powerful attraction of regressive forms. The powerful attraction of regressive forms. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ã p The ultimate though difficult triumph over regression. The difficult but possible task



of overcoming irrationality.



Å s Addiction and regression legitimized by success. Irrationality maintained and legiti-



mized by success.





22 Á p The proper and spontaneous adaption to new forms. The potential gift of conceptu-Recognition alizing spontaneously. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Ä s The vanity to see transformation as a personal achievement rather than a socially



supported or natural phenomenon. The mental vanity that the gift of conceptualizing spontaneously can produce.





11 The sin of omission Transformation that requires retrogressive periods before renewal can take Transformation that requires retrogressive periods before renewal can take 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" place. place.



À p The will to triumph and in this case the faith that the end justifies the means. Inspira-



tion that demands a reassessment of past thinking before a rational concept can be established.



È s Self-delusion which unnaturally justifies periods of retrogression. Inspiration that



leads to an irrational focus on what is past.