ASSIMILATION Channel 43-23 Structuring A design of individuality (Genius to Freak) Harmonic Gate 43 Breakthrough ‚ 2 v 23 w 8 Center Throat ‚ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 18° 52' 30" ‚ - 24° 30' 00" ‚



The very fact that an insight is unique and individual requires that its expression be able to communicate its es-sence to the collective. The purpose of individuation is to leave the door open to mutation. If an insight is truly of value to others , it has to be successfully communicated. This gate is about eliminating intolerance. In an intoler-ant world, the individual cannot survive. When the possibility of insight and the drive for assimilation come to-gether, are connected, defined, we have the Channel of Structuring, a design of Individuality, from genius to freak. If the individual can express their insight clearly to the collective they will eventually earn the collective's respect. If they cannot clearly express their insight, they will be shunned and dismissed as outsiders or freaks. This descrip-tion is of course the extreme of the polarity. This is the voice, that says, 'I know (whether they do or not)'



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EXPLANATION (2) ASSIMILATION DEDICATION





23





SPLITTING APART 23





AMORALITY. THE AWARENESS AND UNDERSTANDING WHICH LEADS TO



THE ACCEPTANCE OF DIVERSITY.





66 Fusion The gradual attunement of diversity through synthesis. The gradual attunement of diversity through synthesis. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Ä p The exponential growth of energy and its power of assertion engendered by fusion.



Individual knowing which brings diversity to synthesis.



Å s The principled but futile withdrawal from fusion that leads to atrophy. Individual



knowing that holds on to diversity and loses its power in expression.





55 Assimilation The practical acceptance of the values of another path. The practical acceptan ce of the values of another path. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Å p Expansion and contribution through assimilation. The gift of communicating individ-



ual insight to the collective.



Á s Motive driven assimilation from an inferior position, i.e. for protection or nourish-



ment. Motive driven assimilation for acceptance and protection from the collective.





44 Fragmentation Diversification without a perceived potential for synthesis. Diversification without a perceived potential for synthesis. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" À p Fatalism and egoism and damn the consequences. Individual expression which has



no collective value.



Í s Atheism and paranoia. Individual expression which engenders isolation and fear.





33 Individuality Independent expression that is not by its nature detrimental to others. Independent expression that is not by its nature detrimental to others. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" À p Vitality and personal power that can engender jealousy but not threat. Individual



expression which attracts attention but not threat.



É s An individual mysteriousness that attracts active suspicion and threat. The freak.



Individual expression that attracts suspicion and threat.





22 Self-defense The need to abandon tolerance when survival is threatened. The need to abandon tolerance when survival is threatened. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" Å p The principle of preservation at its most acute. The abandonment of tolerance when



individual expression is threatened.



Á s Where Jupiter will strike out to preserve its integrity, the Moon is often satisfied with



just protecting itself by fending off hostility. The defense of individual expression in the face of hostility.





11 Proselytization The attempt to undermine one set of values for another. The attempt to und ermine one set of values for another. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" Å p The sage, who in the extreme can defend evil as a part of the greater good. The



powerful expression of an insight which will undermine established values.



Ä s The missionary whose very light will bring darkness. The powerful expression of an



insight which will produce negative effects.