AMBITION Channel 54-32 Transformation A design of being driven Harmonic Gate 32 Duration Š 38 v 54 61 Center Root w Š Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 15° 07' 30" Š - 20° 45' 00" Š Š



In the original I'Ching, the Marrying Maiden referred to was based on a legend of a concubine that eventually be-came the Empress of all of China. This embodies the idea of rising up, moving up the ladder. This is a gate of Drive. Since this gate is a fuel of the Ego circuit and that its inherent meaning is Ambition, it can easilly be dis-missed as a very mundane energy. It may be suprising then to discover that the most mystical line of the 384 of the Rave I'Ching is 54. 4 Enlightenment/Endarkenment. It may appear to be an irony, but it is not. Only when one has mastered the instincts to operate on the mundane plane is transformation possible. This gate fuels the drive to transform. In biological terms, it is associated with the body's liquid production. The significance is that it is through the liquid medium that memory is stored and transported! This Instinctive Stream is all about memory.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PENETRATION (4) AMBITION CYCLES (2)





54





THE MARRYING MAIDEN 54





INTERACTION IN ITS MUNDANE SOCIAL CONTEXT BUT ALSO ONE'S MYS-



TICAL AND COSMIC RELATIONSHIPS .





66 Æ p The ingrained responsibility, in terms of maintaining security and personal identity Selectivity that will naturally restrict its relationships to ones that are mutually beneficial. The 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" energy to restrict relationships that hinder ambition.



Å s A generally benefic and expansive nature that assumes that it can instill, what is



otherwise missing in its partners. A waste of energy. The waste of energy in main-taining relationships which hinder ambition.





55 À p The natural authority and actualizing spirit, that in a position of power, can have Magnanimity genuine and fruitful relationships with the less advantaged. (As long as they are in 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" service and make no demands.) The energy for actualizing that despite this power



fuels fruitful relationships with others. No polarity.



s No detriment.





44 Enlighten- Here, in this most mystical of positions, there is neither an exaltation nor a Here, in this most mystical of positions, there is neither an exaltation nor a detriment, for in truth, they are the same. detriment, for in truth, they are the same. ment/endarkenmen p The Alpha and Omega. The end and the beginning. There is no description possi- t ble. Each planet will manifest this energy uniquely with absolutely no guarantee that 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" its effects will even be perceived. However, the potential is always there. The fuel for



transformation at its purest level. No polarity. No specific planetary accent.



s The Alpha and Omega. The end and the beginning. There is no description possi-



ble. Each planet will manifest this energy uniquely with absolutely no guarantee that its effects will even be perceived. However, the potential is always there. The fuel for transformation at its purest level. No polarity. No specific planetary accent.





33 É p The ability when stymied in formal relationships to use secret or purely informal Covert interaction channels, when it is the only resort. The drive when blocked to use secret means to 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" fuel ambition.



Ã s The insistence that formal channels, no matter how frustrating, can be overcome by



the power of attraction. The energy of ambition when blocked will fuel the power of attraction to overcome the obstacle.





22 Æ p The wisdom once a relationship is formally recognized to restrain the temptation to Discretion take advantage of past informal interactions. The energy of restraint fuels ambition. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Ä s Recognition, in the formal sense, seen as a licence to take advantage of informal



knowledge. A lack of loyalty. Ambition energy which can fuel disloyalty.





11 É p The ability to achieve influence through secret relationships, anywhere from the Influence private adviser to the Satanist. Ambition energized through secret relationships 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" which fuel influence.



Ã s A socially misguided insistence on formal recognition of a relationship, that in terms



of influence, will diminish its power. Ambition which demands formal recognition limiting influence.