REALIZING Channel 47-64 Abstraction A design of mental activity and clarity Harmonic Gate 64 Before Completion † 64 v 47 w 6 Center Ajna † Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 17° 00' 00" † - 22° 37' 30" † †



This gate is the gate of realization but it is not a comfortable process. This is the Sensing circuit, an abstract cur-rent that cannot be substantiated by facts. This gate can create a lot of mental stress and anxiety. It is a burden even at its best. The 64th gate, the fuel of this conceptualizing potential, can be compared to going to a Movie theatre where you expect to see a feature length film, only to discover that it is showing thousands of video clips. To realize which single clip out of the many makes sense is the potential of this gate of Realization. It is no won-der, that this is the gate of Oppression. This is an ongoing process. The Format of the Sensing Circuit is cyclic. The secret to handling such a process, is also the secret of this entire circuit, Patience! You cannot go into the image pool and rummage around, hoping to find a resolution to the unresolved pressure. There is only waiting, waiting for the moment of realization, ah ha.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF RULERSHIP (3) OPPRESSION INFORMING (2)





47





OPPRESSION 47





A RESTRICTIVE AND ADVERSE STATE AS A RESULT OF INTERNAL WEAK-



NESS OR EXTERNAL STRENGTH OR BOTH .





66 Futility A difficult position for which there is no exaltation. A difficult position for which there is no exaltation. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" p No polarity.



À s The Sun in detriment, where the strength of will alone may find a way to adapt and



survive, but without hope of ever overcoming the oppression. Life as an ordeal stripped of realization.





55 The saint This position has special significance and there is no planet in detriment. This position has special significance and there is no planet in detriment. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ã p The gift in times of oppression to maintain without hypocrisy a harmonic relationship



with one's oppressors, while providing aid and succour to the oppressed. Realiza-tion at its most exalted. Acceptance of the weight of the abstract process and the grace that naturally follows. No polarity.



s No planet in detriment.





44 Repression The constraints of external oppression. The const raints of external oppression. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" Æ p The strength of identity that even in times of the most powerful oppression can



maintain its resources and to some extent ensure their survival for the benefit of others. A sense of identity that can be maintained despite external conditioning.



Á s When robbed of its light, the Moon is lost in darkness; barely able to nourish itself,



let alone others. The identity overwhelmed by external conditioning.





33 Å p The conscious and well integrated being whose natural right action will eventually Self-oppression come to see the unfoundedness of its oppression. The eventual realization that one 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" is really o.k.



Ä s A self-oppression so highly energized that it may prove irreversible and destructive.



Extreme difficulty in realizing one's self-worth.





22 Æ p The ambition and drive to overcome personal oppression in order to achieve secu-Ambition rity. Realizing that to be busy is mentally healthy. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" Â s An indecisiveness in times of personal oppression, whether to apply intelligence to



recovery or accept its weight to take advantage of other prevailing conditions that may only be temporary. The inability to sense when and which activity is healthy.





11 Æ p The ability in times of hardship to concentrating on eradicating the negative factors Taking stock that have led to oppression. Realizing that negative thoughts have to be eradicated. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" È s The delusion of seeing oppression as an exclusively external phenomenon with



often disastrous results. The sense that the world is against you.