SAYING YES Channel 46-29 Discovery A design of succeeding where others fail Harmonic Gate 46 Pushing Upward … 4 v 29 59 Center Sacral w … Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 24° 30' 00" … - 00° 07' 30" † †



This is the Tantric energy to empower the Determination of the Self. It is the gate of the Sacral saying, 'Yes'. This is the fuel to perservere despite the circumstances. This is the gate of loading up on piles of commitments and re-sponsibilities so there will be something to perservere about. The trick is to say yes to what is correct. The secret, as always with this Circuit, is waiting. This power to perservere is conditioned directly by the Format energy. Perserverance is also cyclical and what we are commited to one day, may no longer be of interest the next. The wave dominates. This center is not aware and the mechanical drive to say yes can be overwhelming. It is essential to remember, that experientially, what one commits oneself to, must be completed. After all, this is the energy of the channel of Discovery and the discovery does not lie in the commitment but in the process.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONTAGEN (3) COMMITMENT INDUSTRY (2)





29





THE ABYSMAL 29





THE DEEP WITHIN THE DEEP. PERSISTENCE DESPITE DIFFICULTIES HAS



ITS INEVITABLE REWARDS.





66 Confusion The state that exists when momentum outstrips awareness. The state that exists when momentum outstrips awareness. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ä p Driving blind and given Mars' energy and determination, often blind luck. The power



to persevere that makes no sense.



Å s A tendency in confusion to withdraw rather than accept the condition and continue



to persevere. The power in confusion to caution rather than saying yes.





55 Overreach The tendency to bite off more than one can chew. The tendency to bi te off more than one can chew. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" À p The Sun exalted, where the drive is in the design and not ambition driven. The un-



controllable drive to say yes.



Í s Failed ambition. Saying yes, overextending one's resources, and failing to persevere.





44 Directness The shortest distance between two points is a straight line. The shortest distance between two points is a straight line. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" Æ p The wisdom to use the simplest and most direct approach to solve difficulties. The



power to commit oneself to the simplest and most direct process.



Ã s Simplicity and directness all too often seen as inharmonic and aesthetically crude.



The power of directness often offends others.





33 Evaluation In this context, properly assessed inaction. In this context, properly assessed inaction. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Ä p Despite the urge and cost of inaction the knowledge that it is sometimes better to



fight another day. The power to wait.



Å s A preference for withdrawal in principle with little regard for effect. The inability to



make commitments. The power of caution.





22 Assessment Persistence tempered by caution. Persistence tempered by caution. 25° 16' 15" - 26° 22' 30" À p The power of sustainment as a guiding light. Saying yes and the power to persevere.



Ã s A tendency to overcautiousness when persistence is perceived as adding to rather



than ending disharmony. Caution in saying yes, when perseverance leads to dis-harmony.





11 The draftee The ability to adapt to struggle when necessary but not as a permanent state. The ability to adapt to struggle when necessary but not as a permanent state. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 16' 15" Ä p The innate nature to apply energy in times of war and peace. The power to perse-



vere when necessary but not generally.



È s A deep impressionability whose mark from times of struggle may make a return to



normal conditions extremely difficult. Hesitation in making commitments based on past experience.