DOUBT Channel 63-4 Logic A design of mental ease mixed with doubt Harmonic Gate 4 Youthful Folly Œ 37 v 63 w 22 Center Head Œ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 11° 22' 30" Œ - 17° 00' 00" Œ



This is the fuel of doubt, of suspicion, of distrust. The doubt is not only projected out into the world but it is also turned in on itself. The pressure of this doubt is an essential inspiration of the entire logic system. The Understanding circuit is universal in lifeforms on this planet. Understanding is an essential process in this life and it begins with doubts. This pressure of uncertainty demands proofs, facts, substantiation. There is no need to feel uncomfortable because one has doubts, they are the beginning of a process of understanding, not an end. The foundation of this circuit is patterns. The doubt will only arise when there is something unclear in the pattern. This is the gate of Questioning and it is not aware. The logic circuit is about establishing with certainty the validity of a pattern so that it can form the basis for projecting into the future. The pressure of doubt fuels anxiety and the fear for the Collective future. The fuel is to question. The pressure is a need for an answer.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS DOUBTS DOMINION





63





AFTER COMPLETION 63





IN THE SPIRAL OF LIFE, ALL ENDS ARE BEGINNINGS.





66 Å p The good sense to avoid turning the previous struggle into an obsession. The logic Nostalgia of leaving old doubts behind. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" É s Revolutionary nostalgia. Illogic and the potential obsession with old suspicions and



doubt.





55 À p The authority and sincerity of purpose to pursue the same values in the new begin-Affirmation ning that had allowed it to transcend the old. The understanding that doubts are 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" necessary and of value.



Ä s A tendency in triumph to pay lip service to such values, and given such leadership,



these values will be reduced to nothing more than empty rituals. Doubting one's very process despite understanding.





44 Â p The detailed accounting of the achievement process whose information base can Memory prepare a new order for the future. The pressure to explore the doubt in detail as a 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" foundation for eventual formulizing.



Ä s A willingness to forget in the glow of victory, with a possible price to be paid later.



The pressure and risk to forget the details when the doubts have been answered.





33 Å p The dedication to the new beginning that insists on maintaining its achieved princi-Continuance ples despite having to interact with those who have not attained such a state. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Doubts that one can maintain one's principles when interacting with others.



Æ s Success at any price. The pressure to eliminate the doubt at any cost.





22 Å p The establishing of a large framework through which achievement can be expanded Structuring and shared; compensating others for their contributions while maintaining control of 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" direction. The pressure to share one's doubts with others while still maintaining con-



trol.



Ç s Instability in achievement that when in positions of authority leads to arrogance and



the desire to keep others away from the center of power. Doubts in achievement that can lead to suspicion of others.





11 À p The quality of personality where achievement is accepted with equanimity and Composure where continued development is allowed to take its natural course. Acceptance of 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" achievement but doubt whether continued development will take place.



Ä s The tendency in achievement to immediately seek new goals at the risk of destabi-



lizing what has already been accomplished. The pressure in achievement to still doubt one's capacities and to immediately seek new goals.