THE FIGHTER Channel 38-28 Struggle A design of stubbornness Harmonic Gate 28 Preponderance of the Great Š 58 v 38 w 54 Center Root Š Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 09° 30' 00" Š - 15° 07' 30" Š Š



The Root is a Pressure Center, not an Awareness. The Fuel to fight, to struggle is an energy. The Stream of Intui-tion begins in this gate. The channels which connect the Root to the Spleen are by their nature difficult while at the same time being healthy.

The Spleen is a center of underlying fears. This fuel to fight is the essential energy necessary to combat our fear of death. This channel is about the struggle to know that life is of value. Since this is a fuel of the Knowing Circuit, the struggle ultimately is individual. Often the fighter is shunned as an outsider and their struggling, deeply misunder-stood. Through the 38th Gate, we have the pressure to challenge, met in the 28th Gate, by the willingness to play. Through the definition the game playing can become very serious, even life threatening, see 28. 6 Neptune in detriment. Here, it is the stubbornness which can overcome the odds. Remember that the Splenic center is our center for well being. To have this definition, to be stubborn, to struggle, is ultimately healthy. If it is your design, then struggle is the only way to know.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF TENSION (4) OPPOSITION INDIVIDUALISM (2)





38





OPPOSITION 38





THE ABILITY TO PRESERVE INDIVIDUAL INTEGRITY THROUGH OPPOSITION



TO DETRIMENTAL FORCES .





66 Misunderstanding Opposition without basis. Opposition without basis. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Æ p Eventual crystallization which clears up misunderstandings. Energy which attracts



misunderstanding, and the stubbornness to face opposition.



Í s The recognition that misunderstanding is at the root of opposition but the insis-



tence, that it is the misunderstanding of the opposing forces. Where misunderstand-ing is at the root of struggle, the energy of stubbornness to insist and maintain one's position.





55 Alienation A stage in opposition when one is totally isolated. A stage in opposition when one is totally isolated. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Æ p The ambition and concentration to endure. The energy to stubbornly fight alone.



É s Alienation experienced as painful confinement that by its very nature blinds one to



the possibility that there are those at some point who may come to one's aid. The energy for stubbornness is so strong that it is difficult to recognize, that there are others that can help in times of struggle.





44 Investigation Analysis which strengthens opposition. Analysis which strengthens opposition. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" É p The detective who develops or the insider who accepts a joint opposition whose



success can only be based on trust. The energy to recognize who can be of value in times of struggle.



Ä s The aggressiveness in opposition that prejudices investigation and limits trustwor-



thiness. The power of adrenalin to provoke aggressiveness.





33 À p The ability to sustain through integration with similar forces, thus ensuring the vitality Alliance to persevere. The energy to integrate with others in times of struggle. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Í s Selfish alliance which saps the energy of one's partners, in order to ensure personal



vitality. The energy to selfishly use others in times of struggle.





22 Politeness Opposition that does not transgress normal codes of behaviour. Opposition that does not transgress normal codes of behaviour. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" É p The value of discretion. The energy for the intuitive awareness for discretion.



Á s An over-politeness that is both servile and obviously superficial and defeats its very



purpose. The energy for over-politeness in times of struggle.





11 Qualification Tempering opposition based on the circumstances. Tempering opposition based on the cir cumstances. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" È p A psychic attunement that guarantees proper action. The psychic gift of knowing



when and how to fight.



Ä s The tendency to oppose as a general rule. The drive to fight as a general rule.