THE NOW Channel 20-10 Awakening A design of commitment to higher principles 20-57 The Brain Wave ƒ A design of awareness 8 v 20 w 16 20-34 Charisma ƒ A design where thoughts must be deeds





Harmonic Gates 10 Treading

57 The Gentle 34 The Power of the Great

Center Throat

Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 00° 07' 30" ƒ - 05° 45' 00" ƒ ƒ



Contemplation is the only purely existential gate. The Throat Center is the final stage in the process of expressing the Intuition. The Throat Center is not aware. It has a mechanical function, to speak or act, which can be condi-tioned by Awareness. Each gate of the Throat has its own unique voice. The voice of Contemplation, unaware and free of maia, says, 'I am Now'. When the Intuition is Defined to the Throat, then the voice says, 'I know I am Now'. It is important to remember that the Splenic Center is not a motor. The Channel of Penetrating Awareness, remains strickly verbal and though the knowing in the now exists as Awareness, it cannot be transformed into action. When the entire Stream of Intuition is Defined, the Throat can then manifest all of the potential of Intuition. 'I know what I am struggling for in the Now'.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SLEEPING PHOENIX (2) THE NOW DUALITY





20





CONTEMPLATION 20





RECOGNITION AND AWARENESS IN THE NOW WHICH TRANSFORMS



UNDERSTANDING INTO RIGHT ACTION .





66 Wisdom Contemplation which results in the ability to apply understanding. Contemplation which results in the ability to apply understanding. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Ã p The establishment for the benefit of society, values, ideals and their patterns and



how they can be understood and applied. The ability to transform individual aware-ness for general application and understanding.



Â s The same as above but motivated by the self-satisfying mental challenge rather



than altruism. The ability to transform individual awareness for general application for the mental challenge.





55 Realism Contemplation, in and of itself, is no guarantee of success. Contemplation, in and of itself, is no guarantee of success. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Æ p Where concentration on detail results in a perfected form. The success of express-



ing awareness through detail.



Ç s Where reality creates dissatisfaction and adds to instability. The expression of



awareness in the now through dissatisfaction with the reality one sees.





44 Application Recognition and awareness that can only be transformed into action in coo Recognition and awar eness that can only be transformed into action in coop- p- 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" eration with those who have the ability to act upon the understanding. eration with those who have the ability to act upon the understanding.



Å p The teach whose students transcend him. Where the expression of awareness can



only be turned into action through others. The teacher.



Â s A tendency to prefer theory to application. The expression of the awareness as the-



ory with little interest in its application.





33 Self-awareness Understanding derived from analysis of personal actions and effects.. Understanding derived from analysis of personal actions and effects 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" À p The proper attunement and development of the personality through self-



consciousness. The expression of self-conscious awareness in the now.



Í s Self-consciousness in the extreme that hampers development. The expression of



self-consciousness in the extreme.





22 The dogmatist Restrictive and intentionally limited understanding. Restrictive and intentionally limited understanding. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ã p The limitation if personal and exclusive is less negative through ascetic withdrawal.



A restrictive awareness of the now.



Á s The power to lead others down a narrow path. The gift through expression of leading



others down a narrow and restrictive path.





11 Superficiality A reliance on shallowness. A reliance on shallowness. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Ã p The raising of superficiality to an art form. The sloganeer. Superficial expression as



an art form.



Á s The superficial expression of the personality. The expression of the superficial per-



sonality.