ALIVENESS Channel 58-18 Judgment A design of insatiability Harmonic Gate 18 Work on What Has Been Spoilt Š 10 v 58 w 38 Center Root Š Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 03° 52' 30" Š - 09° 30' 00" Š Š



The connections between the Root and the Splenic Centers have enormous impact on our health and well being. The Spleen, our body's washing machine is not a motor. In order to function the immune system has to be ener-gized. The primary and most natural fuel is from the Root. These channels connecting the two centers are by their very nature healthy but at the same time, difficult. The Channel of Judgment is a design of Insatiability. Not being satisfied in the now. Its mundane nature, its criticism and relentless dissatisfaction often gives an erroneous im-pression of its value and importance. 58, the fuel of this Stream of Taste, is the gate of Vitality. It is literally the zest for life and the energy, and this is its key, for 'a better life'. Criticism is a natural by-product of this improvement energy. Betterment is founded on conditioning both social and moral. This gate is the vitality to challenge that conditioning and to improve upon it.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF SERVICE (4) VITALITY DEMANDS (2)





58





THE JOYOUS 58





STIMULATION IS THE KEY TO JOY.





66 Á p The tendency to practicality that while thoroughly enjoying external stimulation has Carried away the instinct to draw back when its independent integrity is threatened. The energy to 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" fuel independent integrity that will maintain its identity in times of stimulation.



Â s When its basic intelligence is effectively stimulated, its natural desire for attunement



will lead it to identify so strongly with the stimulation that it is at risk of losing its iden-tity. The energy which fuels loss of identity in times of stimulation.





55 Á p The natural and practical instinct to protect oneself regardless of temptations. The Defense fuel for self-defense regardless of stimulations. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" À s The assumption that the best defense is a good offense, that might allow strength



of character to enjoy questionable stimulus without succumbing to it. The energy for aliveness which forsakes self-defense and will embrace questionable stimulations.





44 É p A natural specializiation that when confronted with a multiplicity of stimulations will Focusing have no inner difficulty in focusing on the appropriate influence. The energy to fuel 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" recognition of which stimulation is of value.



È s An impressionability that becomes confused when confronted with a multiplicity of



stimulations and in trying to accommodate all of it, becomes unstable. Energy which becomes unstable when overstimulated.





33 Ç p The individual whose electric vitality creates its own stimulation and is not depend-Electricity ent on others. The energy to fuel independent stimulation. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Ä s The quality of fire is dependent on its fuel and subject to its influence, good or bad.



The energy for aliveness that is dependent on others for stimulation.





22 p No polarity. No exaltation. Perversion Ç s A genius for perverse stimulation that afflicts oneself and others by promoting de-04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" generacy and reducing joy to indulgence and decadence. The energy which fuels



the drive for perverse stimulation.





11 Ã p The very stimulation of the world is the basis of an aesthetic appreciation of its Love of life beauty and wonder. Alone or shared with others this profound inner realization is 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" the key for a joyous harmony with the process of being. The energy which fuels the



love of life.



Á s The Moon has its phases, its moods, that will limit joy to an intermittent and cyclical



experience. A cyclical energy which intermittently fuels the love of life.