CRISIS Channel 35-36 Transitoriness A design of a 'Jack of all Trades' Harmonic Gate 35 Progress Œ 22 v 36 w 25 Center Solar Plexus Œ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 22° 37' 30" Œ - 28° 15' 00" Œ



The potential of recognition through feelings leads to the possibility of change. No gates are under greater pres-sure then 22 Grace and 36 The Darkening of the Light. These are the only two conceptualizing gates which have direct access to the throat and can manifest directly as Action. Since it is emotional energy, the Pain&Hope wave that conditions this definition rather than the possible emotional awareness that lies within the wave, the outcome is often destabilizing for the individual and for others. Only in this way is the 36th gate the gate of crisis. Change and changes in feeling are natural to the Abstract process. This is an experiental circuit. The ultimate role is to be a witness, to remember and reflect. The shift of feelings determines the ending of a cycle, nothing more, but this can only be recognized through awareness. The energy overwhelms this possibility, and change becomes either something that is dreaded or embraced and fuels a life of expectations and inevitable crises.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EDEN CRISIS THE PLANE





36





THE DARKENING OF THE LIGHT 36





THE RULE OF CYCLES IN WHICH DECLINE IS A NATURAL BUT NOT ENDUR-



ING STAGE.





66 Justice The inevitable survival of right. The inevitable survival of right. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" Å p The knowledge and attendant faith that the powers of darkness eventually destroy



themselves. 'Those whom the Gods wish to destroy, they first make mad.' The cor-rectness of crisis when it arises out of pure feelings.



Æ s A profound sorrow and cynicism, that is not diminished by the understanding, that



darkness is self-annihilating. The sorrow or cynicism that comes with seeing that despite the correctness of the feelings, there is always crisis.





55 É p Perfected survival regardless of conditions. Immunity to crisis as both generator and The underground survivor. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Â s A nervousness that can lead to self-betrayal. Self-betraying nervousness in times of



crisis.





44 É p The ability to prepare for and anticipate decline through the accumulation of secret Espionage or privileged information. The realization that knowledge both covert and esoteric is 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" necessary, if one is to be prepared for crisis and change.



Á s The tendency in recognizing the strengths of the opposition to accept the inevitabil-



ity of decline and rather than resist, to offer one's services to guarantee survival. The double agent. Crisis knowledge that is available to others for a price.





33 Transition The point at which decline has exhausted its power. The point at which decline has exhausted its power. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" É p The ability to establish a new order out of the ashes of the old. The emotional depth



to endure crisis and embrace change.



Å s The tendency in renewal to try to assimilate the remains of the old order into the



new with the risk that it may rise against the new order once it has regained its strengths. The embrace of the change, but with feelings that will not let go of the past.





22 Support Assistance to others in times of decline. Assistance to others in times of decline. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" È p The application of imagination to schemes which benefit others. Feelings that can



benefit others in times of crisis.



Á s The more practical and individual assistance but only when unavoidable and not as



a general principle. Selective assistance in times of crisis.





11 Ä p The energy and determination to persevere in the face of opposition. The emotional Resistance power to handle crisis. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Å s An over-principled resistance that rather than being selective in resistance and thus



less at risk, will maintain normal patterns and incur opposition. A resistance to change that will always bring crisis.