INACTION Channel 52-9 Concentration A design of determination Harmonic Gate 9 The Taming Power of the Small „ 15 v 52 w 39 Center Root „ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 03° 52' 30" „ - 09° 30' 00" „



The Understanding Circuit is conditioned by this Format Energy. It determines the proper frequency for all of the circuit's components. Focus and concentration is the theme of this circuit. The 52nd gate, not ironically, is about stillness. More specifically, it is about focusing and channeling energy. It is the fuel of passive rather then active energy functions. All of the Format gates which arise out of the Root center are potentially sources of depression. In this gate, when there is no focus for energy, the depression is a result of restlessness. The stillness is enforced by the mechanic of the gate. This lack of focus leads to tension. With this theme of stillness, the energy can be projected as anti-social in its manifestation. The lack of active energy leads to withdrawal. Concentration benefits from withdrawal.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF SERVICE (2) STILLNESS DEMANDS





52





KEEPING STILL (MOUNTAIN) 52





TEMPORARY AND SELF-IMPOSED INACTION FOR THE BENEFIT OF AS-



SESSMENT.





66 Ã p A harmonic and balanced attunement that is at ease regardless of the situation. The Peacefulness lack of pressure in times of stillness. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" È s Delusion as a substitute for genuine tranquillity. Given the positive nature of this



position, the delusion may be just as effective as the 'real thing'. Where the pacifica-tion of the energy is extreme, pressure real or imagined does not disturb the stillness.





55 Explanation In times of inaction, the often important ability, to explain one's position. In times of inaction, the often important ability, to explain one's position. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" Í p The often terse but exceedingly accurate statement. Where inaction and focus can



lead to detail.



É s A convolution whose enigmatic nature is normally misunderstood with unpredict-



able circumstances. Where too much inaction can lead to a loss of focus, and not to detail.





44 Æ p Perfected self-discipline and restraint that deals easily and wisely with impulsive Self-discipline temptations. The energy for restraint which recognizes the value of stillness and 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" focus.



Å s Though responsive to the need of a principled control based on the understanding



of conditions, there is a tendency due to its natural expansiveness, to doubt and restlessness. Restless energy and doubt in the face of restraint.





33 Controls External enforcement of inaction. External enforcement of inaction. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Æ p The ability by its very nature to understand restraint with the potential in acceptance,



to use the period to redefine strategies. The energy for acceptance in inaction.



Ã s A deep dissatisfaction with controls that disturb tranquillity, leads to emotional with-



drawal and affects vision. The pressure of restraint disturbs tranquillity.





22 Ã p The pause that is initiated to benefit others. The pressure to restrain energy for the Concern benefit of others. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Ä s A selfish and abrupt pause that may endanger others unnecessarily. The pressure



to selfishly restrain energy at the expense of others.





11 Í p The pause that is so profound that it leads to silence. The pacification of energy that Think before you leads to stillness. speak Ä s Speaking first and living with the consequences afterwards. Energy that cannot be 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" stilled.