THE GAME PLAYER Channel 28-38 Struggle A design of stubbornness Harmonic Gate 38 Opposition ˆ 50 v 28 44 Center Spleen w ˆ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 02° 00' 00" ˆ - 07° 37' 30" ˆ ˆ



The Spleen is the home of our oldest and only existential awareness, our body consciousness, the 'gut' feeling. The 28th gate is a conceptualizing gate, the first step of any awareness process. The potential of intuition is to know in the now, whether it is of value to struggle or not. Where the mechanical fighter will not listen, the game player must. The fear of this gate is of death. The challenge is life itself. The development of intuitional potential is based on trial and error. Being a part of the Knowing Circuit, this is a deeply individual process. The risks are al-ways taken alone and so are the consequences. The individual in society is the key to direction, but that role is fraught with difficulties. Any change in direction is the direct result of Mutation, the Format (3 / 60) of this circuit. If the mutation is going to be successful and replace the old with the new, the Tribe and the Collective must be con-vinced of its value. The knower who does not know what knowing to fight for, or how to fight for it, will face enor-mous resistance.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE UNEXPECTED (3) RISKS ALIGNMENT (2)





28





PREPONDERANCE OF THE GREAT 28





THE TRANSITORINESS OF POWER AND INFLUENCE.





66 Blaze of glory Sacrifice rather than capitulation to the law of deterioration. Sacrifice rather than capitulation to the law of deterioration. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" É p Regeneration and renewal no matter what the price. The deep intuitive drive to win



no matter what the cost.



È s Self-destruction. The deep intuitive fear of defeat and a potentially profound hope-



lessness in times of struggle.





55 Treachery The abuse of trust. The abuse of trust. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" É p The manipulation of the collective, that while pitting one faction against the other,



does not directly support or reject either. The intuitive capacity of the game player to provoke struggle amongst others.



À s The breaking of alliances with trusted forces to align with more powerful forces and



its attendant destabilization of the whole. The intuitive recognition in times of strug-gle to know when alliances must be broken and its destabilizing effect on others.





44 Holding on The ability through whatever means to keep one's grip. The ability through whatever means to keep one's grip. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Å p The application of knowledge to exploit opportunities and usually for the greater



good. A depth of intuition at its best in struggle and often of value to others.



Â s The application of intelligence to hold on, exclusively out of self-interest. A depth of



intuition that is stubbornly selfish in its capacity to hold on.





33 Adventurism Unfounded risk taking. Unfounded risk taking. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Æ p A basic conservatism that even in adventurous acts is necessarily prudent. An intui-



tive caution in risk taking in times of struggle.



Å s Here a perverse manifestation of Jupiter's expansiveness where risk taking is ra-



tionalized and failure ensured. Intuitive rationalizing of risk taking in times of struggle.





22 Shaking hands with Distasteful alliance. Distasteful alliance. À p A means, however unsavoury, that is justified by its end. When the game turns to a the devil struggle, the intuitive acceptance of any alliance in order to win. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" Å s The anxiety engendered by sacrificing higher principles when there is no guarantee



of success. The risk in sacrificing principles when there is no guarantee of victory.





11 Ä p The desire to be effective manifested in the application of energy to detail. The intui-Preparation tion to potentially apply energy to detail. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Ã s The aesthetic appreciation of planning that may have no real application. An intui-



tion for detail without the potential for application.