CHANGE Channel 35-36 Transitoriness A design of a 'Jack of all Trades' Harmonic Gate 36 The Darkening of the Light ƒ 16 v 35 45 Center Throat w ƒ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 11° 22' 30" ƒ - 17° 00' 00" ƒ ƒ



The Sensing Circuit is rooted in its format of cyclical energy. It always requires beginnings, middles and ends. The 35th gate is a key to this energy functioning properly. This is a gate of change conditioned by the cycle. This is the gate of satiating the appetite for change. This is the expression of the Channel of Transitoriness, a design of a Jack of all Trades. Like its mirror, the 16th gate of skills, the 35th gate is experientially talented. Its voice says, 'I feel' and usually, 'I feel it's time for a change. ' This is the channel of expectations but there is no light at the end of this tunnel, none. 'I feel if I do this, I'll get that' is not a formula and an expression of fact. It is a hope that will al-ways lead to pain. This is not a design that can afford to be goal oriented. This is a gate of the 'wheel' turning.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS (2) EXPERIENCE SEPARATION





35





PROGRESS 35





BY DESIGN, PROGRESS CANNOT EXIST IN A VACUUM AND IS DEPENDENT



ON INTERACTION.





66 Rectification The energy to correct. The energy to correct. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Æ p The process of crystallization coupled with ambition that assures timely and effec-



tive correction. Progressive change that results from correction.



Ä s A destructive tendency that in its personal application may be the necessary sever-



ity to ensure correction but when applied generally, it will meet with resistance and tend to reinforce rather than rectify situations. Correction which brings change through severity and even destruction, and will always meet resistance.





55 Altruism The sacrifice of personal for communal progress. The sacrifice of personal for communal progress. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Â p The principles of interaction and harmony communicated successfully for the bene-



fit of the whole. Progressive communication that can bring beneficial change to the whole.



Å s Jupiter in detriment, though altruistic and cooperative in general, a personal regret



that in interaction a greater personal expansion had been lost. Progressive commu-nication, but always the sense that personal progress has been sacrificed.





44 Hunger The insatiable appetite for progress. The insatiable appetite for progress. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Á p Less severe. Symbolized by the phases of the Moon, the drive may be obsessive



when the Moon is full, but like the fading of the Moon the obsession abates. Change for change's sake. The drive lessens with age.



Ä s The abuse of position to accumulate perks with the inevitable retribution from those



unfairly deprived. The drive for progress that will ultimately step on toes and lead to recrimination.





33 Collaboration The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Å p Benefic encouragement of others that expands personal as well as communal pro-



gress. The ability to bring progressive change into other's lives.



À s The need to be the center that ignores the importance of others. The need to be the



center for progress.





22 Creative block Lack of inspiration which stops progress. Lack of inspiration which stops progress. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Ã p Attunement with the vagaries of the muse and the recognition, creativity is energy



that ebbs and flows. Creativity and the muse will always come and go.



Á s The need to take action, however mundane, to overcome the feeling of emptiness.



The actions being uninspired do not further progress. The need for change and the fear of stasis.





11 Humility The ability to accept rejection. The ability to accept rejection. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Ã p The artist that accepts rejection as part of the process. Acceptance of change and



rejection as part of the process.



È s A self-destructive reaction to rejection. Loss of worth. Change and rejection as hu-



miliation.