POWER SKILLS Channel 2-14 The Beat The design of being the keeper of keys Harmonic Gate 2 The Receptive ˆ 43 v 14 34 Center Sacral w ˆ Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 24° 30' 00" ˆ - 00° 07' 30" ‰ ‰



This is the fertile power of the Sacral center at its most exalted. The channels between the G center and the Sacral are Tantric channels, where the sacral energy is available as fuel to empower the Self. The ultimate expression, however, always lies through the Throat. The 14th gate, is the power that drives the Sphinx. The 'Driver' the Prime Magnetic Monopole, may know the direction but if there is no key to turn on the motor, there is nowhere for the vehicle to go. Changes in Human Direction are determined by mutation in the Format energy and the consequent mutation of the 'Drivers' fuel. Fuel determines direction! A vegetarian and a carnivore have different directions in life.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONTAGEN (4) EMPOWERING UNCERTAINTY (2)





14





POSSESSION IN GREAT MEASURE 14





THE ACCUMULATION AND RETENTION OF POWER THROUGH SKILLED IN-



TERACTION, COUPLING GRACE WITH CONTROL.





66 Humilty Wealth and power at its most exalted. Wealth and power at its most exalted. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" À p The enlightened recognition that material success is God's will. Spirituality as the key



to acceptance and the source of power.



Í s All manifestations of this position are essentially positive. The Earth represents the



existentialist recognition that material success was unavoidable and the humility engendered by such serendipity. Existentialism as the key to acceptance and the source of power.





55 Arrogance The ever present risk inherent in positions of power. The ever present risk inherent in positions of power. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" À p Innate dignity. Innate dignity that is a key to power.



Ã s A dissatisfaction with the gifts of others that creates feelings of superiority. Innate



recognition of those without power fueling the illusion of superiority.





44 Security The concentration on establishing a strong foundation. The concentration on establishing a strong foundation. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" Á p Protection from assault. The key to power lies in developing skills to ensure a strong



foundation.



Ä s Overconfidence in meeting the challenge of competition that may threaten the very



basis of security. Without the proper skills the inability to guarantee security.





33 Service The utilization of talent and wealth for the highest good. The utilization of talent and wealth for the highest good. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Í p Selfless contribution to society. The key to power lies in selfless contribution to oth-



ers.



È s Greed and the self-destruction of moral fibre. The power of selfishness to fuel greed.





22 Management The wisdom that investing in expertise brings rewards. The wisdom that investing in expertise brings rewards. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Å p Expansion. The ability to delegate responsibility. The key to power lies in not trying



to be and to do everything alone.



Ä s The vanity to be one's own best expert. The key to power is doing everything indi-



vidually.





11 Money isn't every- The recognition that wealth has its own problems. The recognition that wealth has its own problems. Å p The lust for lucre tempered by higher principles. The key to manifesting power is thing higher principles. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" Â s The delusion that you can throw money at problems. Energy alone can never be the

key.