THE HUNTER/HUNTRESS Channel 21-45 The Money Line A design of a materialist Harmonic Gate 45 Gathering Together Q 17 v 21 51 Center Heart w Q Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 09° 30' 00" Q - 15° 07' 30" Q



The Channel of Materialism is unique in the Body Graph. It stands alone as a single channel, self-enclosed unit. It is the only outlet for the two Streams of Awareness, which determine the nature of the Ego; its strength and its will. In this sense, it rules our Tribal life. Biting Through is the power for life on the material plane. It is a great condition-ing force in the world. To have this gate in your Design, demands that you control, where you live, what you wear and what you eat! This gate can never afford to have a boss leaning over their shoulder. This is the gate of the 'hunter/huntress' and it is their ego drive to dominate. If this gate had a voice, it would say, 'I control'. If it is in a situation where it does not control, its power can never be fulfilled. This channel is keynoted as The Money Line. For the 21, if they are not in control of how they make their living, they are always far from success.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF TENSION CONTROL ENDEVOUR





21





BITING THROUGH 21





THE JUSTIFIED AND NECESSARY USE OF POWER IN OVERCOMING



DELIBERATE AND PERSISTENT INTERFERENCE.





66 Chaos Where ineffective action leads to disorder. Where ineffective action leads to disorder. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" É p The war of attrition. The continuance of legitimate action in the hope of eventually



succeeding despite all odds and increasing disorder. Where the ego is out of touch, the display of will power leads to disorder.



Ã s Withdrawal and reliance on inner order in a chaotic situation. Where the material



direction is chaotic, the ego will withdraw and use its power to find an inner order.





55 Objectivity The use of force must be based on impartiality and not emotionally moti- The use of force must be based on impartiality and not emotionally mot i- 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" vated. vated.



Å p A principled and legal character that ensures objectivity. The balanced ego whose



will power is applied objectively.



É s The drive for elimination is so powerful that objectivity is related purely to cause and



not effect. The ego whose will power is applied subjectively.





44 Strategy Careful appraisal of opposing forces to establish a proper response. Careful appraisal of opposing forces to establish a proper response. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Å p Success in action through clarity. The ego to succeed on the material plane and the



instinct to use will power effectively in response to conditions.



Í s A tendency, when in the right to misjudge the power of one's opponents. The drive



when in the right to follow one's ego rather than one's instincts.





33 Powerlessness Where the just are condemned to a futile confrontation with superior forces. Where the just are condemned to a futile confrontation with superior forces. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" È p Defeat as a survivable humiliation often acceptable through the abuse of drugs and



alcohol. Unless one follows one's own material path, the breaking of the ego by su-periors.



Å s Total withdrawal. A lack of will for the material path in order to protect the ego.





22 Might is right The legitimacy of action in response to flagrant and persistent interference. The legitimacy of action in response to flagrant and persistent interference. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Ä p Powerful and extreme reaction. Here, the severest action will be the most success-



ful. The legitimate rejection of interference on the material plane.



È s A tendency to regret severity, no matter how legitimate. The ego uncomfortable with



severity.





11 Warning The use of force as a last resort. The use of force as a last resort. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ä p The fierceness to be respected without recourse to action. The will power and ego



to ensure respect.



Á s An inherent peacefulness that all too often turns a necessary warning into a plea. A



lack of will power that is forced to ask for respect.