PRINCIPLES Channel 49-19 Synthesis A design of being sensitive Harmonic Gate 19 Approach ‹ 13 v 49 w 30 Center Solar Plexus ‹ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 18° 52' 30" ‹ - 24° 30' 00" ‹



This is the gate of Revolution, at once pure energy, and the capacity in the wave to reject and at the same time, potentially aware and ritualistically spiritual. In the Design of Mammals (see Glossary, Natural World) this channel forms one of the three cross-species connections between animals and Humans. This is the channel of Animism and the exaltation of Animals as gods. The 49th gate has the sensitivity to interact with animals and is the gate of the 'breeder'. Taming and breeding animals to ensure food resources. Revolution is the potential awareness to know what and whom is needed or not to maintain or restructure the community. It seeks the support of the 19, in return for the guarantee of food (social) access. On the mundane plane, Sensitivity is the political 'left' and the Stream of Instinct, the political 'right'. The risk with the principles of this gate, is the nature of the Solar Plexus. When determined by emotional energy, the revolution follows the wave of hope and pain, the hope of 'power to the people' becomes the pain of starvation in the 'gulag'.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EXPLANATION PRINCIPLES REVOLUTION





49





REVOLUTION 49





IDEALLY THE TRANSFORMATION OF FORMS BASED ON THE HIGHEST



PRINCIPLES AND NOT SIMPLY FOR POWER .





66 Attraction The power of revolution in action to expand its support. The power of revolution in action to expand its support. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" È p An innate impressionability that transforms the fence-sitter into the committed. The



sensitivity and potential to embrace and transform others.



Æ s Stubborn, and often fatal, rejectionism. Oversensitivity that leads to rejection of prin-



ciples and others as a rule.





55 Á p Practical provisions for the needs of others in revolutionary times which ensures Organization support and continued understanding. A potential sensitivity to the practical needs 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" of others.



Ä s A concentration on the organization of power to clearly define authority often at the



expense of higher principles. A rejection of higher principles in seeking to organize others.





44 Å p A political and social agenda, embodied in guarantees to human rights that ensures Platform a just and valued replacement of the old order. A potential sensitivity to the needs of 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" society.



Ä s Promises, promises, promises and only to guarantee support with little possibility of



implementation. A potential to insensitively take advantage of the needs of society.





33 È p The ability to destroy antiquated forms once the restrictions have been removed. Popular discontent The potential in sensitivity to reject failed principles or relationships. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" É s Pluto in detriment, with general support, a savageness in eliminating the old order



that may permanently scar the new. An insensitivity in rejection and rejecting.





22 Í p The determination to exhaust every possible peaceful avenue for change and then The last resort when satisfied that no other course is possible, to plan in detail before revolution is 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" attempted. The potential to explore every possibility before rejecting.



É s The overwhelming revolutionary urge that is impatient with accommodation and



negotiation. The tendency here is the coup d'etat that has little general support. Impatience with accomodation.





11 The law of neces- Revolution has no support unless it is perceived as necessary. Revolution has no support unless it is perceived as necessary. Å p The understanding and application of this law to maximize expansion of support sity and thereby ensure viability. The awareness that the potential of a principle is based 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" on it being accepted as viable.



À s The misuse of influence, to insist that necessity can be created out of action. The



'Helter Skelter' syndrome. To commit acts of disorder as proof that disorder exists. Oversensitivity to rejection that can turn a principle into a crusade.