FIXED RHYTHMS Channel 15-5 Rhythm The design of being in the flow Harmonic Gate 15 Modesty ‰ 9 5 w 26 Center Sacral v ‰ Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 11° 22' 30" ‰ - 17° 00' 00" ‰



Tantric channels are about the empowerment of the Self. No other channel in Design has such significance. Being in the Flow is a universal mechanism and binds all life forms together in the 'rhythm of Life'.

The 5th gate is the power to fix the pattern. It is the gate of habits, of daily rythm and tempo. This is not about es-tablishing the pattern through awareness. This is a mechanical gate. The role of awareness is to not identify with concepts that try to alter the natural pattern. If it is natural to eat at 7 o'clock in the morning, nothing should be allowed to interfere with that pattern.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS (4) HABITS SEPARATION (2)





5





WAITING 5





THE FUNDAMENTAL ATTUNEMENT TO NATURAL RHYTHMS. WAITING AS



AN ACTIVE STATE OF AWARENESS .





66 Yielding Waiting is never free from pressure, physical or mental and is often punct Waiting is never free from pressure, physical or mental and is often p unctu- u- 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" ated by the unexpected. ated by the unexpected.



È p The growth of awareness that comes with bending to the universal flow. Accepting



that in one's fixed rhythm despite the pressures, growth will be empowered, and often through the unexpected. No polarity.



s There is no planet in detriment; each in its way, given the power of this position, will



yield to the inevitable. No planet in detriment.





55 Joy Waiting as an aspect of enlightenment. Waiting as an aspect of enlightenment. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Ã p To remain calm as the ultimate aesthetic and thus recognize the inner meaning of



being. The power to be calm and to find one's place in the flow.



É s Joy dismissed as an illusion, waiting as a failure. Disillusionment with recognizing



one's place in the flow.





44 The hunter Waiting as a guarantee of survival. Waiting as a guarantee of survival. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Ç p The creative genius to transform the most passive experience into active achieve-



ment. The power to make the best of one's fixed rhythm.



À s The vanity of a personality so strong that unwilling to hide behind a blind, threatens



its very survival. The drive to deny one's own rhythms with predictable costs.





33 Compulsiveness The fear engendered by the sense of helplessness resulting in unnecessary The fear engendered by the sense of helplessness resulting in unnecessary 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" stress and activity. stress and activity.



È p Compulsiveness can be limited in its negative effect through flights of imagination.



Though still stressful, they do not lead to action. A surrender to the limitations of a fixed rhythm through the empowerment of the imagination.



Á s The Moon cannnot stand still. Unable to surrender and at odds with one's own



rhythm.





22 Inner peace The ability to ignore the temptation to take premature action. The ability to ignore the temptation to take premature action. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Ã p The gift of maintaining composure through idealizing tranquility. The power to be



comfortable with one's rhythm.



É s Inner peace experienced as stagnation. The drive for power that is constrained by



the fixed rhythm.





11 Perseverance If the captain must, he goes down with the ship. If the captain must, he goes down with the ship. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Ä p Courage in the face of adversity. The power to maintain one's own rhythm.



Í s The premature and often disastrous urge to cut one's losses. Weakness in maintain-



ing one's rhythm when challenged.