POWER , A design of an archetype Channel 34-57 Power 20-34 Charisma , A design where thoughts must be deeds 10-34 Exploration , A design of following one's 14 v 34 w 9 convictions ‰ Harmonic Gates 57 The Gentle





20 Contemplation 10 Treading

Center Sacral

Circuit Centering

Astrologic Position 00° 07' 30" ‰ - 05° 45' 00" ‰

The only purely asexual gate out of the Sacral center. This is a gate of pure unconditioned power. It is power ready for display, available for use. The 34th gate is one of the four gates of the Integration Channels (20,10 & 57). As energy, it is powerful enough to fuel three different channels (Power, Charisma & Exploration). Such power is never to be underesti-mated. This is the essential fuel of Individuation. The Sacral is second only to the Throat Center in complexity. Like the Throat, it both moves us and provides us with a voice. The movement is rooted in what is termed 'sex drive'. It is in fact a repetitive frequency. The defined Sacral takes its blind walks, shuffles its papers and cleans the house compulsively. This is frequency and not the metamorphosis possible through the Throat. The Sacral also has its voices, the moans and sighs. The 34th gate is the grunting / growling voice. The power to be independent and the energy of conviction.

It is the Power of the Great which determines whether Individuation can be maintained. This is an enormous energy re-source and not aware. Its power allows it to fuel three different channels. The empowerment of the Human Archetype is its primary function and the definition to 57 is essential. This power without the guidance of awareness can wreck havoc. It is through the Channel of Charisma, a design where thoughts must become deeds, that its destabilizing impact is so common. The power of 34 is relentless, when defined to the Throat, it must manifest. Charisma is what we call the re-lease of Individual Power in the Now. In the design keynote, the term 'thoughts' is used. Do not misinterpret this illusion to the mind only. It is in fact a reference to any of the three awareness centers (Ajna / Mind, Spleen / Body and Solar Plexus / Spirit). The Channel of Charisma not defined to an Awareness center is open to conditioning from any awareness and in the instant of identification with the awareness, it will turn the awareness into deeds. The irony is that charismatic indi-viduals, who seem to epitomize personal power, are so often profoundly manipulated in their lives.

THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SLEEPING PHOENIX (4) POWER DUALITY (2)





34





THE POWER OF THE GREAT 34





POWER IS ONLY GREAT WHEN ITS DISPLAY OR USE SERVES THE COM-



MON GOOD.





66 Common sense Knowing when enough is enough. Knowi ng when enough is enough. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Í p The good sense when having bitten off more than one can chew to spit part of it



out. The restriction of the release of power when one does not have the strength to maintain it.



Å s Enthusiasm overriding better judgment, invariably leads to complications. The lack



of restrictions that can sap one's strength.





55 Annihilation The total elimination of resistance. The total elimination of resistance. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Ä p The power to destroy completely and once this is accomplished, the ability to trans-



fer the power to normal purposes. The resistance to release power other than when necessary.



Á s A difficulty in shedding the patterns established to deal with resistance. Symbolized



by its phases, the feeling that nothing is permanently annihilated. The discomfort with the need to always release power.





44 Triumph The freedom in absolute victory to unlimited use of power. The freedom in absolute victory to unlimited use of power. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" É p A tendency in victory to restrain excessive power in favour of more subtle and covert



styles. The inherent confidence to use power subtly.



Ä s Ego gratification in the unrestrained use of power with impunity, inevitably leading to



abuse. A lack of confidence that can lead to abuse of power.





33 Machismo The indiscriminate display of power. The indiscriminate display of power. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Æ p The great malefic, where machismo unfortunately is invariably backed up by power



This is an exaltation only in that it is natural and not contrived. The display of power that defines any role.



Â s A reasoned and calculated display. The communication of disinformation. The cal-



culated display of power in order to define the role.





22 Ä p The ability, when victory is in sight, not to loose perspective. The power that grows Momentum when victory is in sight. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ã s A tendency to be emotionally carried away by the smell of victory. The power for



growth limited by impatience.





11 The bully The indiscriminate use of power. The indiscriminate use of power. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Æ p The less negative, the resort to power as a manifestation of frustration. The energy



to display power as a response to frustration.



É s The comeuppance that is the inevitable destiny of the bully. The ever present risk of



retaliation to power displays.