CONFUSION Channel 64-47 Abstraction A design of mental activity and clarity Harmonic Gate 47 Oppression † 40 v 64 47 Center Head w † Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 11° 22' 30" † - 17° 00' 00" † †



The Head is a Pressure Center not an awareness. This is the beginning of the Abstract mental process. The key-note of this channel is mental activity. The term Confusion is not to be taken as a negative. It simply means that the pressure is a busy mind with a great deal of data (most of which is superfluous) that requires filtering before the pressure can be relieved. While the Logic process tests the pattern in the present to project into the future, the Abstract process is about experiencing the present in order to reflect upon it, when it is past. The pressure of this gate is a flood of images rooted in past experience. When activated from the Design (pre-natal data), this is also a powerful dreaming gate. Since this is the mental pressure for the Abstract Circuit, the starting point is by its very nature a mixed blessing.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS (3) CONFUSION DOMINION (2)





64





BEFORE COMPLETION 64





TRANSITION, LIKE BIRTH, REQUIRES A DETERMINED STRENGTH FOR THE



PASSAGE THROUGH.





66 Â p The mental assuredness, that knew that victory was inevitable, thus making triumph Victory sweet but not reason for excess. The mental gift of enjoying the confusion and its 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" diversity of data.



Ã s Like the story of the Trojan Horse, it can be dangerous to get carried away in cele-



bration, least one looses vigilance and perspective. With all the diversity of data, it is easy to lose perspective.





55 Ã p The values promised in any new order are demonstrated through harmonic interac-Promise tions with others. This strengthens the justification for the struggle. Confusion over 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" which values and relationships can bring harmony.



Å s A tendency in trying to justify the struggle by focusing exclusively on the failure of



the old order that cannot demonstrate the quality of the new. Focusing on the past confusions about values and relationships.





44 Á p Symbolized by its phases, the Moon is assured of transition convinced by its very Conviction process that it will triumph. The assuredness that confusion is a process that results 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" in realization.



Ä s Where force and energy alone cannot overcome doubt. Where the confusion is so



energized, assuredness brings no relief.





33 Æ p The wisdom to recognize when one has not the necessary resources to complete Overextension transition. Such timely awareness may give it a chance to seek assistance. The 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" wisdom to accept confusion as a temporary state, that will be resolved in time or



through others.



Á s The risk of a superficially confident personality that when transition collapses, there



is no one to turn to. Overconfidence that the Fates will be kind on demand.





22 Ã p An inner development which recognizes what qualities are essential for transcen-Qualification dence and the awareness that without them, action will fail. Inner development that 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" can end the confusion over what makes sense.



Á s Constantly in action, it wastes the very qualities and resources that it will need. Get-



ting lost in the confusion and burdening the psyche.





11 Ã p In penetrating to the center, the understanding that instills the necessary harmony Conditions to survive disorder. Amongst the confusion, the difficulty in finding the point. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Ä s The powerful temptation when having transition in sight, to hasty action. An urge to



act when you think you have made sense of the confusion.





64 64