THE DETERMINATION OF THE SELF Channel 46-29 Discovery A design of succeeding where others fail Harmonic Gate 29 The Abysmal † 6 46 w 18 Center G v † Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 28° 15' 00" † - 03° 52' 30" ‡ ‡



This gate is part of the Cross of the Vessel. It is a gate of Love, the love of the body and the flesh. This is the gate of Serendipity, of recognizing that beginning with one's own body, the body as Temple, that one is always in the right place, at the right time. This can be a gate of discovery and Good Fortune. It is all dependent on the Deter-mination of the Self. The Design of 'Succeeding where other people fail' is also inversely a Design of 'Failing where other people succeed. ' It is through this channel that the Abstract process can find its promise or chaos. The determination to accept that one is in the right place is deeply spiritual. It is surrender to the cycle and in that sur-render is the potential for discovery. It is also clear, that unless the abstract being can accept and commit them-selves to the cyclic nature of their lives, their bodies will begin to fail under the stress of constant crisis, disap-pointment and upheaval.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE VESSEL OF LOVE (3) SERENDIPITY HEALING (2)





46





PUSHING UPWARD 46





GOOD FORTUNE THAT MAY BE PERCEIVED AS THE RESULT OF SERENDIP-



ITY BUT DERIVES FROM EFFORT AND DEDICATION.





66 Æ p The wisdom to secure one's identity through careful consideration of the restrictive Integrity potential of commitments. The determination to say no to restrictive commitments. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" È s Deceiving oneself and others by overextending one's resources and eventually be-



ing in the position of having to break promises. A drive for success that will not say no, and will end up breaking promises.





55 Á p The maintenance of proper rhythm that in its instinctive practicality avoids radical Pacing divergence from successful patterns. The determination to stay with the rhythm 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" which brings success.



È s An irrational rejection of the very patterns that have proven successful. Determined



to say no to the very rhythm that brings success.





44 Í p The ability, once recognized, to move rapidly from a position of obscurity to influ-Impact ence. The good luck which comes from being determined that eventually, in the right 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" place at the right time, leads to recognition.



É s A reaction in achievement that tends to bite off the hand that fed it. The determina-



tion in success to ignore those who helped create it.





33 Á p A practical approach to good fortune, that maintains the same patterns and atti-Projection tudes that brought success and does not get sidetracked by indulging in further 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" expectations. The determination to stay with what brings success.



Ä s A tendency through projection to treat a potential future as the present, leading to



unjustified egoism and the loss of momentum and support. The determination to treat a projected success as a reality.





22 À p A difficult and demanding nature that succeeds despite its behaviour because of The prima donna the depth of its talents. The determination to succeed that may offend others. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ä s Unrealistic demands and offensive nature of egocentric mediocrity. The determina-



tion to be treated as a success before it has been realized.





11 Being discovered Dedication in obscurity that is unexpectedly discovered. Dedication in obscurity that is unexpectedly discovered. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" È p Art for art's sake. Any creative endeavour that is self-fulfilling sooner or later is rec-



ognized. The potential for creative success through dedication.



Å s The ability to judge the potential of those in obscurity but often solely to benefit



one's own success. The determination to recognize and benefit from the success of others.