FRICTION Channel 59-6 Mating A design focused on reproduction Harmonic Gate 59 Dispersion † 47 v 6 w 46 Center Solar Plexus † Circuit Defence

Astrologic Position 22° 37' 30" † - 28° 15' 00" † †



This is the most complex gate of the Solar Plexus and the most difficult in terms of finding the awareness within the wave. Not only is it a powerful motor with the energy for producing life itself but it also contains the awareness possiblities of all three Streams of Emotional awareness; Feeling, Emoting, and Sensitivity. Where the 50th gate is the awareness of our Personal Defense Reflex, Conflict is our evolved Genetic Defense Reflex. There is no survival for Humanity unless it continues to reproduce. From the perspective of our genes, this is our only purpose, to maintain and continue the genetic pool. In our biology, the 6th gate is associated with our PH balance. It is PH that keeps our outside/outside and our inside/inside. It establishes the boundary of the body. Throughout most of our history, this has been a mechanical process. The possibility of awareness in this gate could transform the nature of all of Humanities intimacy. Who is in and who is out, who can penetrate or be penetrated is the work of this gate. However, as an energy, and this is its general state, it always confines intimacy to a hope and pain cy-cle.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EDEN (3) CONFLICT THE PLANE (2)





6





CONFLICT 6





THE FUNDAMENTAL DESIGN COMPONENT OF PROGRESS. THE LAW THAT



GROWTH CANNOT EXIST WITHOUT FRICTION.





66 The peacemaker The discipline and integrity of a superior force to unilaterally cease conflict to The discipline and integrity of a superior force to unilaterally cease conflict to 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" permit surrender and survival of its foe. permit surrender and survival of its foe.



Â p The highest form of reason is that life is sacred. The emotional power to end conflict



tempered by feelings and sensitivity to others.



Ã s The peacemaker whose actions are just but whose terms are unacceptable. The



emotional power to end conflict but only after one's conditions have been satisfied.





55 Arbitration The faith derived from analytical diligence and emotional control that permits The faith derived from analytical diligence and emotional control that permits 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" a higher authority to judge a conflict.. a higher authority to judge a conflict



Ã p Harmony furthered through the avoidance of direct conflict. Sensitivity to conflict can



lead to the avoidance of intimacy.



Á s Where a party to arbitration sees itself as the best possible judge and will only ac-



cept judgement if it is the victor. Insensitivity to the concerns of others in a conflict.





44 Triumph A position on natural and unchallengeable power. A position on natural and unchallengeable power. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" À p The charity and wisdom that must come with victory and the movement towards



new horizons.. The power of emotions to dominate a relationship.



É s The conqueror and purger. The lack of emotional control that is destructive in rela-



tionships.





33 Allegiance The ability to secure support and create strength out of a weak position. The ability to secure support and create strength out of a weak position. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" When connected to the harmonic Gate 59, mating that results in conception. Whe n connected to the harmonic Gate 59, mating that results in conception.



È p The destruction of old forms through union; either mundane, as above, sexual un-



ion, or exalted as universalization. The depth of feelings that can enrich union and intimacy.



É s The rejection of allegiance as submission to established order. Sensitivity to controls



which may eventually reject intimacy.





22 The guerilla The ability to maximize an inferior position through timely contact and with- The ability to maximize an inferior position through timely contact and wit h- 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" drawal. drawal.



Ã p Aesthetic sensitivity and mental detail can find the weakest point. The sensitivity to



find the weakest point in a conflict and to exploit it emotionally.



Ä s The kamikaze, striking but moot. A lack of sensitivity that blunders into conflicts.





11 Retreat The realization that wasting one's resources against overwhelming odds is The realization that wasting one's resources against overwhelming odds is 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" not courage but folly. not courage but folly.



É p The power of regeneration that can embrace retreat as a phase and not a failure.



The emotional stability to accept conflict.



Â s The inferiority complex, where retreat is experienced as personal weakness. Emo-



tional instability in times of conflict.