SELF-EXPRESSION Channel 8-1 Inspiration The creative Role Model Harmonic Gate 8 Holding Together ˆ 44 1 w 43 Center G v ˆ Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 13° 15' 00" ˆ - 18° 52' 30" ˆ ˆ



This is the yangest (six yang lines) of the Hexagrams. It is a deep need to express oneself. This gate demands attention. This is potentially an extremely creative gate but this is not a creativity rooted in awareness but in its unique direction. Individual expression, like individual insight can only be fulfilled through interaction with others. The role of this creativity is, 'doing your own thing' and when and if the creativity attracts attention, it may become an example for a new direction for others. Regardless of this potential, the drive to express one's individuality to others isn't always appreciated. This gate and its relationship to its harmonic gate 8:Holding Together, can best be expressed through the relationship between the 'Artist' (1) and the 'Agent' (8). When in harmony, this channel contributes creative direction to the collective. Tension can arise in this relationship when the Artist wants to be their own agents or when the Agent knows better than the Artist.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SPHINX (4) SELF-EXPRESSION DEFIANCE (2)





1





THE CREATIVE 1





CREATION AS A PRIMAL FORCE. THE ENERGY POTENTIAL TO MANIFEST



INSPIRATION WITHOUT LIMITATION.





66 Í p Clear assessment of creative value. Clarity in creative expression. Objectivity É s The risk that subjective appraisal will result in disappointment and creative frustra-17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" tion. Subjectivity in self-expression that may lead to creative frustration.





55 Ä p Mars exalted for its powerful ego endurance. The power and drive to stay with the The energy to at-creative process. tract society Ç s Uranus in detriment, where eccentricity can handicap endurance. Eccentricity that 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" though attractive will limit the drive.





44 Aloneness as the The tension of inner light. The tension of inner light. Í p The Earth exalted as the symbol of personal perspective manifested outside of in-medium of creativ-fluence, where the potential magic of inspiration is diluted. Creativity that must de-ity velop outside of influence. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Å s Where the potential magic of inspiration is diluted. The need to influence that aban-



dons aloneness and limits creativity.



33 Ä p Mars exalted as the symbol of the profound need for self-expression. The deep The energy to sus-need for self-expression. tain creative work Í s Material forces can disrupt creativity and lead to overambition. Materialism disrupts 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" creativity.



22 Ã p Venus exalted as a symbol of beauty. The required harmony between established Love is light values and ideals that enriches inspiration. Self-expression conditioned by ideals 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" and values.

Ä s Desires and passions have their place but not at the expense of Creation. Self-

expression limited by desires and passions.



11 Á p The Moon exalted as a symbol of adaption. Time is everything. Self-expression Creation is inde-which has its special timing. pendent of will Ç s Instability leads to distortion. Here, patience is a virtue and revolution a vice. Crea-13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" tive instability unless there is patience.