THE BEHAVIOUR OF THE SELF Channel 10-34 Exploration A design of following one's convictions 10-57 Perfected Form A design of survival 11 20-10 Awakening v 10 w 58 A design of commitment to higher principles ‰

Harmonic Gates 34 The Power of the Great

57 The Gentle 20 Contemplation

Center G

Circuit Centering

Astrologic Position 28° 15' 00" ‰ - 03° 52' 30" Š



This is the most complex gate that opens up out of the G center. Out of the 10th gate, three channels can be formed. The 10th gate is a behavioural bridge which links the Centering circuit to the Knowing circuit. It is the po-tential behaviour of the Self. Before this behaviour can manifest, it must be guided spontaneously by the Intuition (57) from the Splenic Awareness, and empowered by the Sacral (34) and then it can manifest through the Throat in the now (20). Treading is a gate of the Vessel, a gate of Love. It is the 10th gate which ensures the perfection of our form and its survival and the conviction which guides it, is the Love of Living, of being alive. The complexity of this gate can also be seen on its effects on others. This is a gate of powerful conditioning influence. How the planetary collective behaves is determined by this gate. Awakening is not possible without a fixed behaviour. The Li. The only way is surrender to the privilege of exploring life in a self-conscious form.

The Channel of Awakening (20-10) is the oldest of our three mystical possibilities. The first and foremost initiation is to recognize who we are. This channel is perfectly illustrated by the inscription over the Oracle of Delphi, 'Know thyself'. Awakening is not a commitment to becoming something, it is a commitment to being oneself. One cannot know what is incomplete. The mystical love of this Vessel gate, is the love of Self as it is, in the now. This is Awak-eness.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE VESSEL OF LOVE (4) BEHAVIOUR PREVENTION (2)





10





TREADING 10





THE UNDERLYING CODE OF BEHAVIOUR WHICH ENSURES SUCCESSFUL



INTERACTION DESPITE CIRCUMSTANCES.





66 The role model The perfect expression of the norms through action rather than words. The perfect expression of the norms through action rather than words. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" É p The constant example that refocuses the complacent on the basic integrity of set



behaviour. The enduring value of the expression of the Self through action rather than words.



Æ s The hypocrite. Do as I say, not as I do. Behaviour restricted to words rather than



action.





55 The heretic Direct and overt challenge to norms. Direct and overt challeng e to norms. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Å p The ability to succeed through the understanding and expression of higher princi-



ples. Principled behaviour which directly challenges tradition.



Ä s The burning at the stake. Behaviour which directly challenges behaviour and is even-



tually punished.





44 The opportunist The acceptance of norms until a successful transformation can be engen- The acceptance of norms until a successful transformation can be enge n- 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" dered. dered.



Ç p Transformation that is transcendence to a higher code. The maintaining of behav-



ioural patterns until the right moment and opportunity for transformation.



Â s Oportunism as a game and/or mental exercise. Altering one's behavioural patterns in



order to take advantage of opportunities.





33 The martyr The futile rejection of standards based on a just awareness. The futile rejection of standards based on a just awareness. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Í p The martyr as an enduring example whose behaviour is ultimately enshrined. Be-



haviour that is ultimately challenged by others.



Á s The martyr complex. The active pursuit of martyrdom for personal aggrandizement.



Behaviour as a way to attract attention.





22 The hermit The successful sidestepping of behavioral requirements through isolation. The successful sidestepping of behavioral requirements through isolation. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Â p Mercury exalted, where mental functions enrich aloneness. Independent behaviour



through isolation.

Ä s The angry exile. Isolation to preserve independent behaviour in the face of condition-

ing.



11 Modesty An innate sense to know and accept one's place. An innate sense to know and accept one's place. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" À p A valued sense of purpose no matter what the position. The ability to know one's

place and how to act despite circumstances.

Á s The affliction of oversensitivity and hurt feeling. Oversensitivity to external condition-

ing of behaviour.