THE GATHERER Channel 45-21 The Money Line A design of a materialist Harmonic Gate 21 Biting Through ƒ 35 v 45 w 12 Center Throat ƒ Circuit Ego

Astrologic Position 17° 00' 00" ƒ - 22° 37' 30" ƒ ƒ



This is the gate of the Master/Mistress, or the King/Queen it is the gate of Dominance. All of the gates of the Throat have voices, here it says, 'I have'. Gathering Together is the expression for the Entire Tribal Group and it is a Throat gate of primary action. All of the potential power of three motors focuses through this expression. As a composite definition, The channel of Materialism, can be one of the most beneficial. 45 is the gate of the pasha, it says to the 21, the hunter/huntress, 'I have this land, and I will allow you to hunt on it as you like but make sure I get the best piece of meat. ' When the 45 is generous in its authority and recognizes the willfull independence of the 21, all is well. More often, the 21 thinks it deserves the best piece and the 45 wants to tell the hunter how to hunt. The 21 represents the demands of the community of its rulers. The 45 is the key to the harmony of the community. When the ruler can say with honesty, 'We have', then there is peace in the Tribe. By the way, a practi-cal cure for depression in either 21's or 45's, go shopping!



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF RULERSHIP (2) POSSESSION CONFRONTATION





45





GATHERING TOGETHER 45





THE NATURAL AND GENERALLY BENEFICIAL ATTRACTION OF LIKE



FORCES .





66 Reconsideration An outsider that can admit that its prior rejection was an error, will generally An outsider that can admit that its prior rejection was an error, will generally 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" be accepted into the gathering. be accepted into the gathering.



Ç p An innate empathy with the outsider mentality and its eccentric and often misunder-



stood logic. A material direction which serves the outsider.



Å s Where Uranus will innovate to find a place for an outsider, Jupiter will demand that it



conforms. A material direction that is focused on conditioning the outsider to con-form.





55 Leadership All gathering together must have a center and a focus. All gathering together must have a center and a focus. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ç p The intuitive intellect and gift for innovation that enhance the group effort and ensure



continuity through respect of the center. The gift for expressing leadership on the material plane.



Å s A sense of right action that assumes a respect that may not as yet have been



earned. The drive for leadership that may not have yet earned the right.





44 Å p The ability to focus the opportunity of gathering together for the service of higher Direction principles. The expression of higher principles on the material plane. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" Ä s The tendency to try to influence the direction of a group action for personal benefit.



The lack of expression of higher principles on the material plane.





33 È p The ability when excluded to take whatever measures are necessary to dissolve the Exclusion antiquated form and to accept even humiliation to achieve inclusion. The instinct to 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" find a way to be included in a material process.



Ä s An aggressive and often violent reaction to exclusion. The expression of frustration



when not included in a material process.





22 Consensus Gathering together is strengthened by acknowledged common interest. Gathering together is streng thened by acknowledged common interest. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" Ç p The inventiveness to establish techniques by which common ground can be as-



sessed. A material direction through the expression of techniques for the benefit of others.



Ä s An innate rebellion against conformity. The refusal to accept the material techniques



of others.





11 Å p The ability to promote and develop gathering together through the education of the Canvassing uncommitted. The material direction lies in education. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" Ä s An overzealousness that turns canvassing into proselytization and tends to alienate



rather than gather support. The drive for material that leads to aggressive education.