FRIENDSHIP Channel 37-40 Community A design of being a part seeking a whole Harmonic Gate 40 Deliverance Œ 55 v 37 w 63 Center Solar Plexus Œ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 05° 45' 00" Œ - 11° 22' 30" Œ



This is the most communal of all the gates. It is the transpersonal expression of the potential sensitivity of Revolu-tion. This gate is also the focusing of sensitivity for communal expression. This gate is the possibility to offer sup-port and friendship to others. The Tribal Circuit group (Ego and Defense) are the most intensely social. They es-tablish, support and maintain our communities. Once the sexual imperative has been satisfied (Defense), the community is an essential development. Sensitivity, biologically is about food. The Tribe must be fed. The 37th gate is the gate of the Mouth. The friendship offered by this gate can never be free of an underlying bargain. It is always seeking loyalty and looking for a promise of loyalty in return. The wave of emotional awareness leads to the hope and pain cycle of friendships, loyalty/ disloyalty, promise/broken promise. This is the gate of the Sense of Touch. It is the outstretched arms ready to embrace the outsider. The possibility of awareness in this gate lies in the 'touch' not in the energy to embrace.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PLANNING BARGAINS MIGRATION





37





THE FAMILY 37





THE MANIFESTATION MACRO- AND MICRO-COSMICALLY OF THE ORGANIC



NATURE OF COMMUNITIES.





66 Purpose The energy to maintain the family is enhanced by recognizing its values. The energy to maintain the family is enhanced by recognizing its values. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Ã p The gift of not only recognizing the inner meaning of the family but an appreciation



for its values. The possibility of extending friendships through the appreciation of its value.



Â s A need for diversity that may ignore the achievements of the family in favour of



withdrawal. The need for diversity that despite appreciation will prefer casual friend-ships.





55 Love Natural and unaffected devotion to the family. Natural and unaffected devotion to the family. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ã p Natural harmony and perfected sharing. Natural harmony and sharing possible



through friendship.



Ä s Emotional dependency that often turns love into hatred. The possibility of depend-



ency turning love into hate.





44 Leadership by ex- Any member of the family may take on a leading role through exemplary b Any member of the family may take on a leading role through exemplar y be- e- haviour. haviour. ample Á p The manifestation of the highest principles in everyday and practical affairs. The 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" possibility of the highest principles in all relationships resulting in a leadership role.



Æ s A conservatism that generally only accepts the leadership of the father, who may or



may not be a valued role model. The possibility of being insensitive to the leadership of anyone other than those accepted by tradition.





33 Evenhandedness The success of any group is dependent on maintaining order. The success of any group is dependent on main taining order. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" Å p The ability to judge what behaviour is appropriate and to react in a balanced man-



ner to transgressions. The possibility to have the sensitivity to know what behaviour is appropriate in a relationship.



Ä s An ironic tendency to either test incessantly the borders of acceptability or to re-



spond to the very same tendency in others with severity. The possible lack of sensi-tivity to what behaviour is appropriate.





22 Å p The understanding of the principle of individual responsibility as the foundation for Responsibility successful cooperation. The possibility of friendship through individual responsibility. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" Â s A tendency to point out the responsibility of others. The possibility that friendship will



lead to pointing out the responsibilities of others.





11 The mother/father A position of inherent respect that ensures a focus for the development of A position of inherent respect that ensures a focus for the development of 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" guidelines. guidelines.



Ã p Harmony is the key to the successful maintenance of relationships. It is only through



harmony that the beauty and the values of the family can endure. Friendship that is rooted in sensitivity and ensures harmony. No polarity.



s No planet in detriment.