EXTREMES Channel 15-5 Rhythm The design of being in the flow Harmonic Gate 5 Waiting ƒ 12 v 15 52 Center G w ƒ Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 28° 15' 00" ƒ - 03° 52' 30" „ „



The 15th gate is part of the Cross of the Vessel. It is the gate of the 'Aura' and is the Self that is magnetic. The Love of this gate is for Humanity. This channel defined always determines the rhythm of the environment. Modesty in the traditional sense is always a matter of balancing extremes. Through this gate, the possible extremes are lived out. People who are busy and not, sleep long and short, eat early, eat late; in other words, people who will live out extremes in their rhythm. In Design Analysis, in working with composites, there is a type of connection called Electro-Magnetic. In this connection each partner activates the opposite gate of a channel forming a defini-tion. This is attraction / repulsion, love / hate, a basic relationship dynamic. However, in three cases (45/21, 35/36 and 5/15) this type of connection is very difficult. The 15th gate is uncomfortable with a fixed pattern and the 5th gate destabilized by extreme rhythms.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE VESSEL OF LOVE (2) EXTREMES PREVENTION





15





MODESTY 15





THE QUALITY OF BEHAVIOUR WHICH EXPRESSES THE PROPER BALANCE



BETWEEN EXTREMES.





66 Self-defense Modesty that is never confused with weakness. Modesty that is never confused with weakness. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" É p Constant reexamination to weed out the weakest aspect. The power of the Self in



exploring the extremes to find the weakest point.



Ã s A tendency to use harmony as a weapon in problem situations rather than focusing



on the root causes. The power of the Self to ignore the weakest point in favour of harmony.





55 Sensitivity The ability to sense when otherwise balanced behaviour must be adjusted to The ability to sense when otherwise balanced behaviour must be adjusted to 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" meet the requirements of changing environment. meet the requirements of changing environment.



Å p The power to grow. The capacity of the Self to grow through experiencing the ex-



tremes.



É s The tendency to overcompensate. The drive of the Self to overcompensate and dis-



turb the flow.





44 The wallflower Modesty as a shield against exposure of inadequacy. Modesty as a shield against exposure of inadequacy. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Å p A genuine form that may/or may not mask inadequacies. The uncomfortableness of



the Self when it is out of the flow.



Æ s An ultimately weak defense leading to exposure and humiliation. Extremism that



keeps the Self out of the flow.





33 Ego inflation The risk that modesty once recognized will self--destruct. The risk that modesty once recognized will self destruct. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Í p Where the otherwise negative contrived modesty is here reinforced by recognition



and maintained as an effective strategy. The extremism of the Self as strategy to control the flow.



Â s The 'I told you so' mentality. The capacity of the Self to point out the extremes of



others.





22 À p Modesty and right action result in enduring standards. The capacity of the Self to Influence accept its extreme nature as correct. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Í s Where the Sun's actions are natural, the Earth's are contrived, though given the



power of this position, the same effect can be expected. The capacity to use the extreme nature of the Self to influence others.





11 Duty The ability to confront any challenge without expectations. The ability to confront any challenge without expectations. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" Ã p Harmonic relationships which give support for the fulfillment of any task. The capac-



ity of the Self to confront any challenge through extreme and harmonic relationships.



Ä s Alienation engendered through exaggerated claims. The capacity of the Self to



alienate others through extremes.