SKILLS Channel 16-48 The Wave Length A design of talent Harmonic Gate 48 The Well ƒ 20 v 16 w 35 Center Throat ƒ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 05° 45' 00" ƒ - 11° 22' 30" ƒ ƒ



Talent by its very design is so often dependent on others for manifestation. The defining of the Spleen to the Throat, allows only for verbal manifestation. Every gate of the Throat center has a voice. The 16th gate says, 'I experiment'. Since the Understanding Circuit is about patterns and focus, it makes a clear statement about the quality of talent being dependent on repetition. Constant experimentation, over and over, goaded by the critical capacity, to find the 'perfect' expression. The 16th gate is the gate of Skills, the ancient Chinese Hexagram of Mu-sic, Dance and the Arts. However, this gate is not specifically about the fine Arts, inherent in its capacity is skills for living; a talent for life. One of the keys to Design Analysis is to recognize that harmonic gates are always pro-jecting each other's attributes on the other. The 48 is always self-critical about not having enough skills, and the 16, not enough depth and more complex, the 48 will confuse skills with depth and the 16, vice versa. This was the relationship of John Lennon (48) and Paul McCartney (16).



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PLANNING (2) EXPERIMENTATION IDENTIFICATION





16





ENTHUSIASM 16





THE GREAT ART OF ENRICHING LIFE BY THE HARMONIC CHANNELLING OF



ENERGY .





66 Gullibility The susceptibility to propaganda. The susceptibility to propaganda. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" È p The ability to experience, examine and then reject misleading enthusiasm. The tal-



ent to assess the expression of others.



Å s The same principle but where Neptune will destroy and then seek new forms, Jupi-



ter will painfully withdraw. Its enthusiasm for social structures permanently preju-diced. The failure to assess the expression of others.





55 The grinch The refusal to share in enthusiasm. The refusal to share in enthusiasm. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" É p The power to avoid enthusiasm for the sole purpose of being converted. As with



Dickens' Scrooge, eventual conversion leads to greater and more enduring enthusi-asm. A lack of confidence in the expression of skills that needs the encouragement of others.



Á s The perverse feeling that sharing in enthusiasm hampers individual development.



Why should I be happy when ... etc. A lack of confidence in the value of encouraging others.





44 The leader Genuine and sincere support and recognition of others. Genuine and sincere support and recognition of others. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Å p Enthusiasm for/and service to higher goals. The skill to recognize and support the



talents of others.



Ä s The demagogue. The refusal to support or recognize the talents of others.





33 Independence Self--generating and sustaining enthusiasm. Self generating and sustaining enthusiasm. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" Á p The proper timing to maintain rhythm and avoid deflation. The independent skill and



possible talent to express proper timing and rhythm.



Ä s The child whose overconfidence may lead to frustration and the ensuing depend-



ence on others to regenerate enthusiasm; thus creating an unnecessary reliance. The need to have others confirm one's skills or talent.





22 The cynic The sharpness to burst bubbles. The sharpness to burst bubbles. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" À p Self-reliance and the skill to judge objectively any claim regardless of rhetoric. The



expression of the skill to judge objectively.



Â s The compulsive cynic, whose very cynicism is a source of enthusiasm. Objectivity



expressed through cynicism.





11 Delusion False enthusiasm. False enthusiasm. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Í p The day dreamer. The expression of talent through daydreaming.



Â s The public communication of inevitably unrealized claims. The tendency to express



fantasy as fact.