INTUITIVE INSIGHT Channel 57-20 The Brain Wave A design of awareness 34-57 Power A design of an archetype 48 57 32 10-57 Perfected Form v w A design of survival ‡





Harmonic Gates 20 Contemplation

10 Treading 34 The Power of the Great

Center Spleen

Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 15° 07' 30" ‡ - 20° 45' 00" ‡ ‡



The name the Gentle is a misnomer. This is an extremely yang energy, like the penetration of a chill breeze that can touch you to the bone. This gift of possible intuitive insight is the capacity to penetrate to the core in the now. It is the possibility to transform the lessons learnt in the trial and error of struggle. This is a very complex gate and can connect to three different centers. Within this Intuitional Stream of the Knowing Circuit, the 57th Gate connects directly to the Throat. This gate is the Awareness foundation for survival. Each of the Splenic gates has an underlying fear, here, it is the Fear of Tomorrow. Relatively speaking, a major handicap of the individual is a difficulty in listening. Designed not to be influenced, their Hearing, which is a theme of this circuit, can be selective. The Gentle is the gate of Hearing in the Now, the gate of the right ear. The maximization of intuitive clarity demands existential attention. The whole key to Splenic Awareness is to pay attention in the now, otherwise the Splenic information, the 'hunch', is so easily ignored. When focused and anchored in the Now, there is no tomorrow or fear.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PENETRATION (3) INTUITION THE CLARION (2)





57





THE GENTLE 57





THE EXTRAORDINARY POWER OF CLARITY.





66 Ç p The acceptance that clarity is a double-edged sword. There are situations where Utilization understanding cannot lead to rectification. Here, Uranus' innovative quality can 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" generally make the best out of an otherwise difficult but rarely permanent situation.



Where there is no answer, only the possibilities of the intuition can make the best out of a difficult situation.



Ä s When clarity points to a problem one is unable because of circumstances to solve,



a tendency to anger and frustration that provokes inevitably futile action. The possi-bility that when the intuition cannot solve a problem, a tendency to frustration and anger.





55 É p The natural ability to establish new forms while maintaining the powers of re-Progression evaluation and reexamination. This provides the clarity to examine the data and 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" assess the process. The possible intuitive gift for evaluation.



Á s The tendency to keep on keeping on, that can end up as a misguided missile.



When in action, the intuition may become overwhelmed and unable to assess and evaluate its progress.





44 Ã p The mastery of relationships that through clarity can maximize productivity while the The director sensitivity to interrelationships will ensure harmony. The possible intuitive clarity to 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" master relationships.



Ä s A tendency given this position to be dictatorial rather than directorial. With the gift of



clarity to master relationships, the possibility of being intuitively dictatorial.





33 Â p The perfected intelligence, where clarity eliminates doubt and ensures manifesta-Acuteness tion. The possibility of perfected intuition. No polarity. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" s No planet in detriment.





22 Cleansing The clarity to establish proper values and ideals must be accompanied by The clarity to establish proper values and ideals must be accompanied by 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" resolute determination to maintain them. resol ute determination to maintain them.



Ã p Perfected cleansing through inner realization. The possibility for proper values and



ideals through intuition.



Á s A superficial cleansing that tends to hide the dirt underneath the carpet. The possi-



bility that the depth of the intuition will be treated superficially.





11 Ã p The gift of penetrating to the inner meaning that ensures timely action. The possibil-Confusion ity of the intuition penetrating to the inner meaning. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Á s The Moon in detriment, where feelings are no substitute for clarity and can lead to



indecision. The possibility that confusion will overpower the intuition.