ORDERING Channel 3-60 Mutation Energy which fluctuates and initiates Harmonic Gate 60 Limitation Q 42 v 3 w 27 Center Sacral Q Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 26° 22' 30" Q - 02° 00' 00" ‚



It is in the Sacral that the potential for mutation is empowered. This is a gate of confused energy, confused in the sense that it is unsubstantiated, like the individual insight, it is unique and has to find its form. Mutation can oper-ate in two basic ways. The simplest is the direct mutation through reproduction. The Sacral is our center of fertility. It is associated in biology with the Ovaries in a woman and the Testes in a man. The potential of mutation is deeply connected to our reproductive process and is an essential ingredient for our continued survival. The 3rd gate not only generates potential mutation but it determines what genetic material we inherit from our parents' genetic pool. This is Generational mutation. The second form of mutation is through the fulfillment of the Knowing circuit. Individual expression that through example changes and mutates those who have contact with them, this is Cultural mutation.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF LAWS MUTATION WISHES





3





DIFFICULTY AT THE BEGINNING 3





THE FUNDAMENTAL CHALLENGE OF INITIATION IS TO TRANSCEND CON-



FUSION AND ESTABLISH ORDER .





66 Surrender The ultimate maturity to recognize when struggle is futile. The ultimate maturity to recognize when struggle is futile. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" À p As its light sustains, so life goes on. The innate acceptance that ordering is a proc-



ess, not a problem.



É s As darkness overwhelms, life can seem worthless leading to depression and the



sense of hopelessness. The overwhelming power of confused energy can lead to depression.





55 Victimization When actions designed to overcome confusion alienate others. When actions d esigned to overcome confusion alienate others. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Ä p The courage to stand by one's convictions. The unique energy of individuality to



withstand confusion.



Í s The Earth in detriment, where victimization leads to appeasement and suffering.



Confused energy which is dominated by the ordering power of others.





44 Charisma Innate quality which attracts valued guidance. Innate quality which attracts valued guidance. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" È p Physic attunement that magnetizes nurturing. A psychic energy which attracts nour-



ishment and ensures ordering.



Ä s Mars in detriment, where the demands of ego lead to rejection. Confused energy



that needs nourishment but is generally rejected.





33 Survival The ability to recognize and distinguish between fertile and sterile in their The ability to recognize and distinguish between fertile and sterile in thei r 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" various manifestations. various manifestations.



Ã p In reproduction, the ability to choose the best mate. An innate knowing of what is



sterile and what is fertile where the mutation is specifically biological and dependent on collaboration with others.



É s The perverse denial of evolutionary standards. An innate contrariness which refuses



to mutate.





22 Immaturity The unrestrained acceptance of guidance. The unrestrained acceptance of guidance. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" Ä p The unrelenting energy for growth will eventually triumph. The energy and potential



for individual mutation.



Ç s Internal instability which both accepts and rejects authority simultaneously. Energy



and potential that is conditioned by others leading to instability.





11 Synthesis Difficulties can be only overcome when all the pertinent factors have been Difficulties can be only overcome when all the pertinent factors have been 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" analyzed. analyzed.



Í p The understanding that confusion is natural and must always exist before clarity can



be achieved. An innate knowing that order will emerge from confusion.



Â s The reliance on intellect at the expense of intuition can lead to unnecessary frustra-



tion. The inability to know that order will emerge and the drive to find this knowing elsewhere.