CARING Channel 27-50 Preservation A design of custodianship Harmonic Gate 50 The Cauldron ‚ 3 v 27 w 24 Center Sacral ‚ Circuit Defence





Astrologic Position 02° 00' 00" ‚ - 07° 37' 30" ‚



Without nourishment and caring, nothing can survive, particularly a Human Being, who is so vulnerable for so many years. This is the mirror of the pure sexuality of the 59th gate. This is a gate that is both a fuel and an ex-pression of sexuality. Through definition the power of the Sacral to move us is initiated. The drive to nourish is also in its polarity, the drive to be nourished or cared for. This need to be cared for, driven at the Sacral level can lead to all kinds of Sexual health problems. If it is accompanied by a lack of values from the harmonic gate 50, serious problems are possible. When the possibility of values and the expression of caring come together, we have the Channel of Preservation, a design of Custodianship. Those who preserve and protect. This is the gate of compas-sion, the power to care for the weak, the sick and the young and can be impressively altuistic in its manifestation, as in the case of Mother Teresa of Calcutta.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE UNEXPECTED CARING ALIGNMENT





27





NOURISHMENT 27





THE ENHANCEMENT OF THE QUALITY AND THE SUBSTANCE OF ALL AC-



TIVITIES THROUGH CARING.





66 Wariness A protection against an abuse of generosity. A protection against an abuse of generosity. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" Á p A practical and realistic approach to nurturing, whose appropriateness is guided by



feelings and instinct. The power and strength to be realistic in one's capacities to care and nurture.



É s A tendency to oversuspiciousness. The power of suspicion in limiting the expression



of caring.





55 The executor The ability to distribute effectively the resources of others. The ability to distribute effectively the resources of others. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Å p Either, the gifted and principled agent of distribution or the good sense and ability



to find one. The power and strength to care for the resources of others.



Æ s A restrictive nature that hampers distribution or the seeking of advice and assis-



tance. Weakness and the risk of loss of power restrict caring.





44 Generosity The natural sharing of attained abundance. The natural sharing of attained abundance. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Å p Magnanimous and qualitative sharing. The gift of rewarding those who are deserv-



ing. The power and strength to share generously.



Ä s Indiscriminate sharing. The potential loss of power and strength through indiscrimi-



nate sharing.





33 Greed The obsession with having much more than one needs. The obsession with having much more than one needs. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" É p Here, the psychological manifestation. The obsession and dependency on knowing



what is hidden. The secret policeman. The power derived in having more than one needs, whether sexually, mentally, or materially.



Ä s Mundane and wholly without redeeming value, greed, a lust that inevitably cripples



and addicts. The lust for power to get more than one needs.





22 Self-sufficiency The obvious law that to give, one must have. The obvious law that to give, one must have. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" Á p The Mother. The great nourisher. The strength to nurture and the power to care.



Ä s The child depleting the resources of others. Weakness that can sap the strength and



power of others.





11 À p The ego-driven first law of caring for oneself which is not necessarily at the expense Selfishness of others. The power to care for oneself first. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Í s Envy and its attendant misfortunes. The power of selfishness that is manifested



through envy.