WANTING Channel 49-19 Synthesis A design of being sensitive Harmonic Gate 49 Revolution ‹ 41 v 19 13 Center Root w ‹ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 07° 37' 30" ‹ - 13° 15' 00" ‹



The Ego Circuit, the circuit of the material Plane is not to be underestimated, nor is it specifically mundane. This is the Tribal circuitry, where the keynote is 'support'. This is the circuit of our communities and their survival. This channel of Synthesis, is one of the three Mystical Channels (51/25, 10/20) and the only one that is potentially aware and not strictly mechanical. This gate is the fuel of the sensitivity process. At its most mundane, it is hardly spiritual. It is potentially over-sensitive and easily disturbed. The 19th gate fuels our social needs. It fuels the drive to make sure that the community exists and that there is a place within the community for this energy. It is not about wanting or needing 'someone' specifically. It is the energy to support and the need to have the support of the community available. It is about having access and not be socially restricted. It is the force which drives all revolutions. At a biological level, it is about food. To avoid over-sensitivity, it's always necessary for the 19 to have a full refrigerator!



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE FOUR WAYS (4) NEED REFINEMENT (2)





19





APPROACH 19





THAT ALL THINGS ARE INTERRELATED IS APPARENT AND MANIFESTED



THROUGH THE ACTION OF APPROACH .





66 The recluse The avoidance of contact in general but not exclusively. The avoidance of contact in general but not exclusively. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Å p The fool on the hill. The sage, that if you can find him, will talk to you. The energy



which generally fuels avoidance.



Ä s The sulking child. The self-imposed exile that will only end when it attracts appropri-



ate and soothing reaction. Oversensitivity to rejection that fuels avoidance.





55 Sacrifice The need to limit personal potential in order to achieve a larger goal. The need to limit personal potential in order to achieve a larger goal. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Í p The self-restraint fundamental to such a nature. Energy to keep one's sensitivities



restrained.



Å s A tendency in sacrifice to condescend. Sacrifice can fuel a lack of sensitivity.





44 The team player Individual approach which attracts and accepts cooperation. Individual approach which attracts and accepts cooperation. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Ä p The power and energy for outward activity and the ability to accept others as long



as they can keep up. A driving force that can benefit the whole group. The energy to seek out and exalt in the company of others.



Ã s Attractive and cooperative but a tendency to dissatisfaction with the contribution of



others. A sensitivity energized by the limitation of others.





33 Dedication Receptivity to approach can only be maintained through vigilance. Receptivity to approa ch can only be maintained through vigilance. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ã p The natural ease with which communion is maintained. Sensitivity and ease fueled



by acceptance by others.



Á s A tendency to moodiness that may lead to carelessness. The need to be wanted



hampered by oversensitivity.





22 Service The dedication of personal resources as a result of external contact. The dedication of personal resources as a result of external contact. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Å p Dedication and service to the highest values. The energy to want to be of service.



Â s Protracted indecision, but given the nature of this position, eventual compliance.



The need to be wanted that will eventually turn its energy to service.





11 À p The successful approach that does not loose its individual character in acceptance. Interdependence The pressure of wanting without losing one's identity when being accepted by oth-07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" ers.



Á s The tendency once an approach is accepted to get stuck in continued reflection at



the expense of continued development. The pressure for acceptance which fears eventual rejection.