THE PROVOCATEUR Channel 39-55 Emoting A design of moodiness Harmonic Gate 55 Abundance „ 52 v 39 w 53 Center Root „ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 09° 30' 00" „ - 15° 07' 30" „



Like its mirror, the 38th gate of the Fighter (they are in exact opposition in the Zodiac), Obstruction is a combative fuel. Sometime between the birth of Buddha and Jesus, the Solar Plexus Center began to evolve into our third Awareness center. The Awareness of the 'Spirit'. Rarely experienced in our time, Emotional Awareness is our col-lective destiny. The energy to provoke is an essential ingredient It is in the design that the individual must fight, is provoked and must provoke to find the spirit. The provocateur is seeking out the spirit, trying to provoke it into expression. Since this gate is always looking for its spirit, this fuel also gives it the energy to persevere, to deal with the moods that this process releases. With this energy, whoever you can provoke is not for you! The journey is towards the spirit. This channel is a Design of Moodiness. The mood swings, from hope to pain, is the energy of the Solar Plexus and not its potential awareness. Patience is the key. If the mood cycle is not seen for what it is, the wave frequency of the Solar Plexus, then a result may be 'eating' disorders.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF TENSION (2) PROVOCATION INDIVIDUALISM





39





OBSTRUCTION 39





THE VALUE OF OBSTRUCTION IN PROVOKING ANALYSIS, ASSESSMENT



AND REEVALUATION.





66 The troubleshooter The natural gift for solving problems. The natural gift for solving problems. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Á p Practicality and the ability to guide and nurture others. The energy to provoke others



by attempting to solve their problems.



Ä s Ego dominance that generally abuses this gift for self-aggrandizement and personal



ambition rather than for the benefit of others. The emotional drive to dominate that provokes others.





55 Single-mindedness The rare ability not to overcome but to bypass obstacles. The rare ability not to overcome but to bypass obstacles. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" È p The imagination to establish new patterns that make the obstacles irrelevant. The



imaginative energy to provoke through bypassing obstacles.



Ä s Simple hardheadedness. Though less exalted, it can often result in success and



gather support by its very determination. The energy to provoke through hardhead-edness.





44 Temperance Careful evaluation and assessment before taking action. Careful evaluation and a ssessment before taking action. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Á p The values of feelings and instincts in establishing the proper timing. The energy to



provoke at exactly the right time.



À s The faulty belief that willpower alone can overcome any obstacle regardless of cir-



cumstances. The energy to provoke that ignores circumstances.





33 Responsibility The avoidance of confronting obstacles if failure puts others at risk. The avoidance of confronting obstacles if failure puts others at risk. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Å p The great benefic whose first consideration is for the larger framework. The energy



to provoke through self-sacrifice.



Í s The often disastrous assumption that others are more at risk if an obstacle is not



confronted. The energy to provoke through the failure to make sacrifices.





22 Á p The instinctual and direct assault of obstacles. The energy to provoke through direct Confrontation assault. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Å s The principle of preservation that tempts one to go around an obstacle that should



be tackled head-on. An emotional discomfort when direct assault is essential.





11 Ä p The determination when confronted by obstacles to withdraw but only temporarily. Disengagement The energy to provoke by refusing to confront obstacles. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Â s Disengagement, with an accompanying indecision as to when to reengage. The



refusal to confront obstacles without the capacity to know when to engage. The in-decision is also a provocation.