SHOCK Channel 51-25 Initiation A design of needing to be first Harmonic Gate 25 Innocence Q 21 v 51 w 42 Center Heart Q Circuit Centering





Astrologic Position 15° 07' 30" Q - 20° 45' 00" Q



This is the gate of Individual Initiative. 51 is the only gate out of the Heart Center that is not part of the Ego Circuit. It embodies the power to compete. Walk down the street with a 51, and they are always a step ahead. This Ego drive leads to either courage or folly and always shocks. This is the gate of Shock. The tri-grams of this gate are Thunder over Thunder, thus the Arousing quality of this energy. This is the Channel of Initiation, one of the three Mystical Channels and the potential is the power to leap into the void. This is a Channel where the Heart has to be looked after both physically and spiritually. This is the gate of wounding. The Warrior and the Fool can do great damage. The Heart is not an Awareness Center. Yet, without this competitive drive, there is no centering in our evolutionary process. Like the 14th gate which empowers our direction, The Arousing empowers a direction of Love. The love of life itself and its constant challenge to our survival.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PENETRATION SHOCK THE CLARION





51





THE AROUSING 51





THE ABILITY TO RESPOND TO DISORDER AND SHOCK THROUGH RECOG-



NITION AND ADAPTATION.





66 À p In times of crisis when all those around are confused and in disorder, the ability not Separation to succumb to the panic but to have the will and vitality to survive it alone. The 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" power of the ego to meet challenges alone.



É s Curiously, the same gift, but one by its attitude that invites disapproval that in the



extreme may even prevent a successful separation. The egoism to meet the chal-lenge alone that may provoke and empower the challengers.





55 À p Perfected illumination that in grasping the nature of the shock, can transform its Symmetry normal patterns into a symmetrical adaptation that rides the shock and avoids its 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" devastation. The perfection of the warrior ego through instinctive adaptation.



Ä s A tendency in seeking the core, to harmonize with one shock only to be over-



whelmed by the next. The egoism to indulge in victory and lose vigilance.





44 Ç p A pure inventiveness and sometimes genius to find some opportunity even in the Limitation midst of the most devastating shocks. The warrior ego that will find some way to 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" answer the challenge.



Â s A reasoned make-do mentality that is ineffectual in times of severe shock. The su-



perficial ego that lacks the resources and depth to answer challenges.





33 À p The life-sustaining awareness that thinks on its feet and thus creates opportunities. Adaptation The power of spontaneity in times of challenge. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" Å s The destabilization that occurs when one's field of normal activity is radically and



unpredictably disturbed, where the tendency is withdrawal rather than adaptation. The ego that may be destabilized in times of challenge.





22 Ä p The recognition of the mechanics of shock that indicates when withdrawal is the Withdrawal only logical action. The instinctive withdrawal when the power of the ego is threat-16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" ened.



Â s Being too smart for one's own good and rejecting withdrawal in the vain belief that



one can outsmart natural forces. The egoism to reject withdrawal and face possible defeat.





11 Reference The advantage of previous crisis experience. The advantage of previous crisis experience. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" É p The gift of re-examination that is the foundation of preparedness. The power of the



ego conditioned by experience.



Ã s A tendency to emotional withdrawal after a shock. The weakness of the ego in times



of challenge.