THE LISTENER Channel 33-13 The Prodigal The design of the witness Harmonic Gate 33 Retreat ‹ 19 v 13 w 49 Center G ‹ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 13° 15' 00" ‹ - 18° 52' 30" ‹



Where the logic process demands a Role for the Self, the abstract demands that the Self listens. This gate is the openness of the Self in interaction. It is a gate of the Cross of the Sphinx and manifests direction. In the logic process, direction is a projection through which the collective is pointed towards the possibilities of the future. The abstract process is direction through reflection and points out the experience of the past. This is a gate of the listener. This gate will always attract others who will come and share their experiences. This is the channel of the witness and the completion of the Abstract process. It is the point at the end of a cycle. Here, the knowledge of the cycle is accumulated as memory. There is also magic in this gate for it is the gate of the Hearer of Secrets. This is the Role of openness.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SPHINX LISTENING MASKS





13





THE FELLOWSHIP OF MAN 13





UNIVERSAL IDEAS AND VALUES IN AN ORDERED FRAMEWORK WHICH IN-



SPIRES HUMANISTIC COOPERATION .





66 The optimist The ability to accept any limited interaction as a necessary step towards The ability to accept any limited interaction as a necessary step towards 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" greater union. greater union.



Ä p The energy to persevere. Unlimited hope. The hope that openness will lead to better



relationships.



Â s Naivete. The translation of mutual interest into universality. The belief that mutual



interests can be projected on others.





55 The saviour The ability to overcome all obstacles for the betterment of humanity. The ability to overcome all obstacles for the betterment of humanity. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" È p The charismatic genius who can find a role for everyone. The listener that has a gift



for finding a role for others.



Å s The able administrator. Given the extreme positive nature of this position, mundane



application is rare. The listener whose gift for finding a role for others is practical and suited to administration.





44 Fatigue The point of exhaustion eventually reached when one is too tired to fight. The point of exhau stion eventually reached when one is too tired to fight. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" É p The renaissance that comes with truce and its eventual reinvigoration. Openness



which leads to exhaustion and the need for silence.



Ã s Emotional exhaustion. Appeasement and withdrawal. A role where openness is a



vulnerability.





33 Pessimism The belief that what is best can never be achieved. The belief that what is best can never be achieved. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Í p A lack of trust that can only be transformed through concrete evidence. Openness



that is conditioned by suspicion and seeks evidence.



Ã s Pessimism exalted to an art form, where as art, it may have the opposite effect.



Satire. Where the rightness of suspicion can inspire satire.





22 Bigotry The risk, always present, that fellowship can only exist for a particular type, The risk, always present, that fellowship can only ex ist for a particular type, 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" whether racial, religious, national or intellectual. whether racial, religious, national or intellectual.



Á p Tolerance as the least offensive manifestation of bigotry. A role of openness through

tolerance.

À s The obsessive belief that the highest ideals cannot be embraced by the lowest

forms. An extremely difficult position, where even the highest ideals provide ration-alization for hatred. A role of openness so narrow that there is practically no one worth listening to.



11 Empathy The ability to relate and commune with everyone with equanimity. The ability to re late and commune with everyone with equanimity. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Ã p Harmony through affection. A role of openness in listening to others with affection.

Á s The politician kissing babies. An openness that is never free of motives.