OPINIONS Channel 17-62 Acceptance A design of an organizational being Harmonic Gate 62 Preponderance of the Small Q 25 17 Center Ajna v w 21 Q Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 03° 52' 30" Q - 09° 30' 00" Q



The possibility of being able to organize the Formula, the understanding, and prepare it for expression. This is the gate of the student and the teacher. It is the formula brought into to focus. This is the gate of Opinion. The Circuit of Understanding demands proof and opinions must have a logical foundation to withstand testing and criticism. This by the way isn't to say whether these opinions, logical or not, are correct. Facts are regularly used to support lies and lies are proffered as formulas. This is about the form of the concept. The Collective mental possibilities, gates 11 and 17, are associated in our biology with the Eyes. The 17th gate is the right Eye. It is the eye which sees clearly in the Now. It is the best eye for experimentation. The left eye never sees everything at once! These mental concepts are about visualization. The right eye seeks the fixed pattern and projects out of this pattern. Opinion is like a crystal ball. Fixed visually on the pattern in the now and projecting into the future. By design, the question (63), the answer (4) and the Opinion have no voice much less any power to act. The mind is far away from a motor.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF SERVICE OPINIONS UPHEAVEL





17





FOLLOWING 17





THE ANCIENT LAW THAT THOSE WHO WISH TO RULE MUST KNOW HOW



TO SERVE .





66 The bodhisattva Perfected following, one with and the same as, perfected leading. Perfected following, one with and the same as, perfected leading. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Á p The great nurturer. The nature of this position is always positive. The possibility in



understanding the nature of interdependency to express opinions of value to others.



Å s The tendency on the perfected path it is a straight line that ends rather than a circle.



Where understanding is achieved, the possibility of having the opinion that there is nothing else to learn.





55 No human is an The recognition, however understood that there is no end to hierarchies. The recognition, however understood that there is no end to hierarchies. Ç p The ultimate creative expression of interdependency, whether as God's will or global island synthesis. Opinions that can express the value of being organized whether mundane 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" or spiritual.



Ä s The arrogance, despite all the evidence to claim, that the buck stops here! The



possibility of opinions that refuse to see the value of being organized.





44 É p The ability to probe and discover the underlying motivation and resources of those The personnel who wish to follow. The possibility of opinions based on the understanding of others. manager Å s The overgenerous and often misguided acceptance of would-be followers, often 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" with disastrous results. The possibility of opinions attracting others.





33 Understanding The awareness that the best road is not necessarily the most interesting. The awareness that the best road is not necessarily the most inter esting. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" É p The following of the best road provides the experience necessary to meet the chal-



lenge of the road's end. The understanding that the best opinions are grounded in detail.



Í s The taking of short cuts. One may get to the end quicker, but essential experience



will be missing. The possibility of skipping details and limiting the value of the opin-ion.





22 Discrimination The benefit of associations based on the highest values. The benefit of associations based on the highest values. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" À p The successful achievement of purpose through proper alignment. The possibility to



develop opinions through relationships.



Á s An overactive discrimination that leaves one virtually alone. The possibility of being



opinionated at the expense of relationships.





11 Ä p The energy to sustain a broad spectrum of stimuli. The possibility of having many Openness opinions. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Ã s A tendency to limit openness to aesthetically pleasing stimuli. The possibility to limit



opinions to what is pleasing.