ALONENESS Channel 40-37 Community A design of being a part seeking a whole Harmonic Gate 37 The Family † 59 v 40 w 64 Center Heart † Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 05° 45' 00" † - 11° 22' 30" † †



This is one of the three gates of social caution (12,33). It is the gate of aloneness. The Ego Circuit is unusual since both its Streams of Awareness do not find their expression directly in the Throat as in the other major Circuits. The awareness possibility is the conditioning of the nature of the Ego. The Heart center is a binary of Heart/Ego strength and Stomach/Ego Power. Deliverance is the gate of Will power and it is to be carefully noticed, this is not an awareness center and not everyone has access to this power. In the Mechanics of the Maia, it is clear, that there is no free will. The Ego of this gate says, 'My belly's full, why should I bother feeding you?' It is always alone, even in a crowded home, yet it is essential to the survival of the community, the principles of the community will collapse unless their is a sustained will to maintain the community. The 37 embraces the 40 and offers the only thing that the Ego is vulnerable to, loyalty. Emotional support drives the will. In athletics, it is well known, that to play before your own community, cheered on by their loyalty, pumps up the will power and regularly leads to vic-tory, which the entire community then experiences as its own.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PLANNING (3) DENIAL MIGRATION (2)





40





DELIVERANCE 40





THE POINT OF TRANSITION BETWEEN STRUGGLE AND LIBERATION.





66 Decapitation The necessary destruction of inferior forces in positions of power before liib- The necessary destruction of inferior forces in positions of power before l b- 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" eration can take place. eration can take place.



À p The authority, coupled with the magnanimity to remove from power only those



which deserve such drastic treatment. The power and authority of the ego to eject individuals in legitimate defense of the group.



Í s Exemplified by the terror of the French Revolution, where the idea of who was de-



serving of punishment was cruelly extended to an entire class. The distortion of the ego through power and authority.





55 Rigidity The recognition that to achieve liberation all negative forces must be r The recognition that to achie ve liberation all negative forces must be re- e- 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" jected. jected.



Ç p The revolutionary that demands absolute victory. The power of the ego is main-



tained in the rejection of negative relationships.



Í s A tendency in revolution to accept a certain amount of necessary deviation on the



assumption that it can be successfully purged later. The weakness of the ego in its loneliness to maintain and not reject negative relationships.





44 Ç p The power to transform and the intuitive intellect to select and organize for the pur-Organization pose of maintaining deliverance. The power of the ego when organized and active, 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" to maintain seperateness.



Ä s An uncontrollable zeal that ignores the quality of support in preference for the quan-



tity which in the long run may destabilize deliverance. The empowering of the ego through the capacity to organize others.





33 Humility A calculated mode in deliverance to avoid attracting the attention of negative A calculated mode in deliverance to avoid attracting the attention of negative 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" forces. forces.



É p The subtlety to enjoy deliverance without having to flaunt it. The capacity of the ego



to avoid negative forces even if it means being alone.



Ä s The ego arrogance that demands attention and gets it. The capacity of the ego to



demand attention.





22 À p The power and authority in deliverance to shed forever the qualities which ham-Resoluteness pered liberation. The power through aloneness to recognize the importance and the 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" potential disruptive effect of others.



Á s A natural peacefulness that in deliverance may sympathize with and attempt to



nurture the forces which hampered liberation. The power of loneliness to blind the ego to the possible disruptive effect of others.





11 À p The ability to relax and enjoy the fruits of one's labours. The ego strength to enjoy Recuperation being alone. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Á s The Moon cannot stand still. The ego uncomfortable with being alone too long.