HIGHER KNOWING Channel 2-14 The Beat The design of being the keeper of keys Harmonic Gate 14 Possession in Great Measure ‚ 24 2 w Center G v 23 ‚ Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 13° 15' 00" ‚ - 18° 52' 30" ‚



This is the most receptive (six yin lines) of all the hexagrams. This gate is the seat of the 'Driver'. The ancients would refer it as the 'Higher Self'. It is important to remember and the Gods love a Joke, that the Self is unaware. It is a mechanical function of the vehicle, holding us together in the illusion of our separateness and giving us our direction. This is the potential to continue evolving which finds expression and manifestation through the three other Sphinx gates.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SPHINX (2) THE DRIVER DEFIANCE





2





THE RECEPTIVE 2





RECEPTIVITY AS THE PRIMAL BASE THROUGH WHICH ANY RESPONSE IS



DETERMINED. THE ROOT OF ACTION.





66 Fixation Unable or unwilling to see the whole picture. Unable or unwilling to see the whole picture. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" Â p With Mercury exalted, less negative, though the intellect becomes absorbed in con-



stant rationalization. Higher knowing that is extremely narrow in its receptivity.



Æ s The need for security may distort awareness to its ultimate perversion, destructive-



ness. The Higher Self absorbed with the mundane and the need for security.





55 Â p The strategist with Mercury exalted. Reasoned management of resources. Higher Intelligent applica-knowing as a gift for strategy. tion Í s The inability to share responsibility or recognize the abilities of others. Higher know-17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" ing as an exclusively individual and selfish process.





44 Secretiveness More than modesty, the ability to preserve harmony through discretion. More than modesty, the ability to preserve harmony through discretion. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Ã p The higher goal transcends personal acclaim. The team player, acknowledged as



the leader but never the captain. Where higher knowing does not have to be ex-pressed to be recognized.



Ä s Loose lips sink ships. The unquenchable fire of the ego engenders enmity. The



inability to keep silent when the opportunity arises for expression.





33 Patience The teacher that never stops being a student. The teacher that never stops being a student. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Å p Dedication to a lifetime of receptivity with the maturity to accept that the process



never ends. When connected permanently to Gate 14 through the Beat Channel, rewards for services rendered. The recognition that receptivity is a lifelong process.



Ç s For the revolutionary patience is a vice. Higher knowing that cannot wait and de-



mands expression.





22 Genius Unconscious and unlearnable alignment of stimulus and response. The nat Unconscious and unlearnable alignment of stimulus and response. The natu- u- 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" ral. ral.



Æ p The inner strength to focus and realize. A natural gift for unlearnable knowing. Ä s Genius as madness. Knowledge exclusively as power for the enhancement of the



ego. The delusion that knowledge is power.





11 Intuition Sensitivity to disharmony and atrophy. Sensitivity to disharmony and atrophy. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Ã p The importance of aesthetics whether inborn or acquired. Higher knowing through



aesthetics.



Ä s The assertion of ego in spite of wisdom. The urge for action that will ignore the wis-



dom of the Higher Self.