THE EGOIST Channel 26-44 Surrender A design of a transmitter Harmonic Gate 44 Coming to Meet ‰ 5 v 26 11 Center Heart w ‰ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 17° 00' 00" ‰ - 22° 37' 30" ‰



This is the gate of the Egoist. It is the gate of the Trickster. With the 44th gate, this gate is a specific gate of Mem-ory. This is the memory that can be manipulated. It is important to remember, that the Heart center is not aware. The manipulation of memory is inborn and a mechanic. 'Fools are liars and prophets too, for they can never know if what they say is true. They just have to wait and see. ' Every gate in Design is by its nature dualistic. From the mouth of the great liar can also come the great truth. This is the gate of the Ego's strength. This channel forms one of the main health networks in the body. The 26th gate is the gate of the Thymus Gland, where our Immune System is developed during our pre-natal phase. It is the only direct connection between the Ego and the Spleen and thusly can cleanse the ego and how its memory is applied.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF RULERSHIP (4) THE TRICKSTER CONFRONTATION (2)





26





THE TAMING POWER OF THE 26



GREAT





THE MAXIMIZATION OF THE POWER OF MEMORY APPLIED TO THE NUR-



TURING OF CONTINUITY.





66 Authority The natural attainment of influence justified by the correctness of actions. The natural attainment of influence justified by the correctness of actions. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" À p The embodiment of reason and purpose that passes the test of time. The strong



ego whose influence is justified by the correctness of its actions.



Á s Authority as a symbol and focus but not necessarily as a true embodiment. The



constitutional monarch, stripped of real power but still the symbol of the continuity of authority. The expression of the ego as a role whose influence is symbolic and lacks authority.





55 Ä p The understanding of mechanics and the application of energy to achieve maxi-Adaptability mum potential. The power of memory which maximizes the potential of the ego to 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" attract others.



Ã s A resistance and dissatisfaction when basic changes to nature are necessary. The



resistence of the egoist to adaption.





44 Censorship The alteration of memory through elimination. The alteration of memory through elimination. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" É p The ability through censorship to save the collectivity from itself. The power of the



ego maintained through forgetting.



Æ s The use of censorship to maintain the status quo; selective memory in fear of unre-



strained consequences. The power of the ego maintained through selective mem-ory.





33 Influence The ability, once prepared to gather support. The ability, once prepared to gather support. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" À p The authority to focus communal effort. The power of the ego to gather support



Æ s The leadership, while gathering support will underestimate potential challenges. The



egoist unable to recognize the potential challenges in others.





22 À p The energy and depth of reflection to learn from the past in anticipation of the fu-The lessons of his-ture. The power of the ego to mature through experience. tory É s The urge to take action despite the evidence of history. The failure of the ego to 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" respect experience.





11 È p The ability to enjoy the dreams engendered by accomplishment in order to avoid A bird in the hand the delusion of unlikely potential. The ego which transcends limitation through 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" dreaming.



Ä s Accomplishment as a licence for foolhardy risk taking. The refusal of the ego to be



satisfied.