PRIVACY Channel 33-13 The Prodigal The design of the witness Harmonic Gate 13 The Fellowship of Man … 31 33 7 Center Throat v w … Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 07° 37' 30" … - 13° 15' 00" … …



The Throat has many voices, here it says, 'I remember'. It is the voice of the Witness captured in the biblical story of the prodigal child, who leaves home and gives up their birthright to wander and learn and then returns many years later much the wiser to be accepted back into the fold so that the wisdom garnered in the experience can be shared through rememberance. This is the expression of the Sensing Circuit. This is the gate of Retreat, of the need for privacy. Before a new cycle can begin, a period of reflection on the old is necessary. Unlike the 13th gate, where the secrets are locked away in memory, the 33rd gate is in the Throat and its nature is to share its experience and to reveal the secrets. This is the gate of revelation. Despite what appears to be an ordeal, the Sensing Circuit is of enormous value to Human Progress. The storing of cultural memory has resulted in the ex-ponential expansion of Human capacity. Without the storyteller or the historian, every new generation would have to start from scratch.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE FOUR WAYS (2) RETREAT REFINEMENT





33





RETREAT 33





ACTIVE WITHDRAWAL AND THE TRANSFORMATION OF A WEAK POSITION



INTO A STRENGTH.





66 Disassociation The ability to let go. The ability to let go. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" À p The will to concentrate on revitalization and not be handicapped by persistent re-



criminations. The ability to let go in retreat, to enjoy privacy.



Å s The ability to shed the larger framework that precipitated the retreat, leaving nag-



ging doubts that hamper revitalization. The inability to completely let go.





55 É p As important as the timing itself, is the ability to keep secret one's intentions until the Timing appropriate moment. The ability to keep one's intentions secret. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Å s The tendency to want others to participate in the selection of the timing, which can



lead to confusion. Without a sense of timing, letting others in on the secret prema-turely with resulting confusion.





44 Dignity A lack of turmoil in retreat. A lack of turmoil in retreat. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" É p The underlying faith in resurrection that turns retreat into an opportunity for renewal



and regeneration. The healthy retreat for regeneration.



È s Without the guiding light of resurrection, the inevitable dissolution that leads to de-



generation. Forced to retreat, and unable to see its regenerative qualities.





33 Spirit The attitude that turns retreat into victory. The attitude that turns retreat into victory. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Å p The responsible and principled retreat based on preservation but with the determi-



nation to persevere. Privacy as a path to success.



Ä s A lack of responsibility in retreat. The bridge burner. A drive for privacy that will cut



off its relationships, often abruptly.





22 Å p The recognition that surrender to superior forces can be an opportunity to expand Surrender one's own strengths and eventually triumph. Embracing powerful forces in order to 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" lay the foundation for future success.



È s Unlike the reasoned and calculated surrender above, the deeper and personal sur-



render. The feeling that one's original position was a delusion and the impression-ability that makes might right. A public embrace of powerful forces, and a private resentment of their power.





11 À p The wisdom in a weak position to recognize that survival demands complete with-Avoidance drawal. Retreating when one realizes that they are in a weak position. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" Ä s Where courage is just plain foolishness. Unable to retreat when overwhelmed by



stimulation.