DETAIL Channel 62-17 Acceptance A design of an organizational being Harmonic Gate 17 Following „ 53 v 62 w 56 Center Throat „ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 20° 45' 00" „ - 26° 22' 30" „



This gate of the Throat Center says, 'I think'. It is not the Opinions of 17 that speak but the mechanical capacity for Detail which communicates. The Throat center associated in our biology with the Thyroid Glands, is our center for metamorphosis. This channel is the perfect illustration of this function. What is a visualization at the mental level is concretized in the Throat, opinion manifests as words. It is through this gate the things (formulas) are given their names. The fixing of names is the foundation of the Maia. The 62nd gate is manifestation through detail. This drive for detail can become compulsive. In order for the Collective to understand its world, everything must have a name. The quality of the opinion is always dependent on the ability to detail the concept logically, not on the con-cept itself. 'I think' is not 'I do'. The concept of how things should be organized must face the crucible of testing, repetition and experimentation. This is the gate of the development of language and the common ground for shar-ing the Human experience.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF MAIA (2) DETAIL OBSCURATION





62





PREPONDERANCE OF THE SMALL 62





CAUTION, PATIENCE AND DETAIL PRODUCE EXCELLENCE OUT OF LIMITA-



TION .





66 Æ p A penny saved is a penny earned. Detail as the path to material success. The un-Self-discipline derstanding that material success depends on the expression of detail. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Â s The skills but not the discipline to succeed. The gift for, but not the discipline, to do



the necessary detail work to succeed.





55 Metamorphosis When excellence is achieved, action is necessary. When excel lence is achieved, action is necessary. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" Á p The reaching out to others to share, symbolized by the Moon's phases as it moves



from darkness to eventually sharing fully its light. The understanding that only when the details are complete can action or expression be initiated.



È s A tendency in metamorphosis to seek acclaim through dramatic presentation. When



the details are organized, the need for attention demands expression.





44 Ã p The perfected ascetic withdrawal in the pursuit of harmony and simplicity, where Asceticism outside dangers do not exist, and there is time to pursue inner meaning in detail. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Detail that can only be expressed after periods of isolation and reflection.



É s The urge to take action against established values that when restrained by circum-



stances, leads to withdrawal that waits for opportunity. Where the detail is organ-ized, isolation as a strategy waiting for the right opportunity for expression.





33 Ç p A genius for the unusual. The ability to discover valuable information in detail work Discovery and to find innovative applications for this knowledge. The unusual gift of finding 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" and expressing valuable details.



Ã s A dissatisfaction with the monotony of detail work, where what is missed may be of



great importance and value. The expression of dissatisfaction and boredom in detail work.





22 Æ p The innate restrictiveness and discipline to comply with and exalt restraint. The dis-Restraint cipline necessary for detail work. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" Â s The intellect stymied by severe restraints tends to anxiety and restlessness. The



expression of anxiety and restlessness when faced with detail work.





11 È p The ability to transcend the boredom of routine through a rich and daring fantasy Routine life. The ability to organize the detail through fantasy. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ä s Rebellion and its enormous waste of energy. The need for expression which ignores



the details.