33. Withdrawal



■ 3 yang: mountain below, heaven above Not being constant in virtue may be taken as a

disgrace. Even if one is right, one is humiliated. Withdrawal is successful. Small benefit is correct.



THE IMAGE: Not being constant in virtue, there is no In the course of the development of a society, after a time there must be

accommodation. change for further development to take place; after moving forward, it is

necessary to take a step back in order to last. This hexagram represents

Excessive strength unbalanced, one is unwilling to persist in what one

strength with the ability to stop. This does not take advance to be progress,

should persist in. Too much is as bad as not enough; positive strength that is

but takes withdrawal for progress. Therefore there is success.

not constant is most disgraceful.

But when we talk about withdrawing, it seems to be like the small path of



■ 4 yang: self-help. If we fulfill this small path, is this not close to losing the universal

No game in the fields.

rule that we should help others? This is the reason for the statement that

THE IMAGE: This is not the place for persistence. "small benefit is correct," meaning that even though this seems to be the

How can one catch game? same as a small path, it ultimately is beneficial for the righteousness of a

great person.

This line represents one who is constantly on the move; but being on the

move is not something that can endure forever, so how can one catch the THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Withdrawal is successful, in that by

game? Only by stillness can one get anything. withdrawing you get through successfully. Strength is in its

proper place and is responsive, acting in accord with the time.

■ 5 yin: The fidelity of constancy in virtue bodes well for a Small benefit is correct, in that it gradually grows. The

woman, bodes ill for a man. meaning of the time of withdrawal is great indeed.



THE IMAGE: What bodes well in fidelity for a woman is In the study of higher development, those who wish to help themselves and

consistency from start to finish. For a man doing his duty, to others attain success by withdrawal. Strength in a position of leadership,

follow a woman bodes ill. coupled with wisdom, is the way to act in accord with the time, and thus is

successful. The statement that "small benefit is correct" is made in consid-

This represents flexibility in balance, and also in correspondence with the

eration of the fact that the will for self-discipline on the part of the weak

wise; it seems to be correct constancy, but a leader in charge of guiding the

gradually grows. Those who withdraw properly actually progress through

people is acting like a housewife if he has no ability to adapt successfully to

their withdrawal, while those who withdraw improperly ultimately do not

changes. progress. So the consideration involved is very important.



■ Top yin: Constant excitement bodes ill. THE IMAGE: There are mountains under heaven, which is

inaccessible. Developed people keep petty people at a

THE IMAGE: Constant excitement in those on top is utterly

distance, being strict without ill will.

unsuccessful.

136

THE BUDDHIST