I CHING 34. The Power of the Great 139



1em is not one of inability to function effectively; the problem is when they This is because of being too sure of oneself; this is certain to lead to an

act arbitrarily with their power. The warning that the power of the great is i mpasse.



beneficial if correct is important for those who are at the point of fulfillment.



: ■ 2 yang: Correctness is auspicious. The power of the great means that

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT

the great are powerful. Strong and active, they are therefore

THE IMAGE: For the second yang, correctness is auspicious

powerful. "The power of the great is beneficial if correct"

because of balance.

means that the great should be upright. With correct

greatness, the conditions of heaven and earth can be seen. When the positive remains in a recessive position, strength is not excessive,

and gains balance. Gaining balance, it therefore becomes correct.

In the human being, there is that which is great and that which is small.

Follow the great and you will be a great person; follow the small and you



will be a small person. Now when the text speaks of the power of the great, it ■ 3 yang: Petty people use power; superior people use

means that the great is powerful. nothingness, chaste in danger. When a ram butts a fence,

Here, being strong means not being subject to disturbance by emotions; it gets its horns stuck.

being active means not being imprisoned by past habits. This is what is

meant by power. When it says this power is beneficial if correct, this is be- THE IMAGE: Petty people use power; superior people

cause that which is great is basically inherently correct. Were it not correct, disappear.

how could it be called great? Therefore, with correct greatness the condi-

Even if one is originally a superior person, if one likes power and indulges in

tions of heaven and earth can be seen.

In Buddhist terms, heaven and earth represent principle and knowledge; it, one will be the same as petty adventurers. This will only lead to exhaus-

tion, and one will not be able to break through the impasses of the time. If

they also represent concentration and insight.

one is really a superior person, even if one is full of power, one will not be

too sure of oneself and will be content to be as though naught.

Thunder is up in the sky, with great power.

THE IMAGE:

Developed people do not do what is improper.

■ 4 yang: Being correct leads to good results; regret vanishes.

Not doing what is improper, in the context of Buddhism, is what is known'as

Fences opened up, one does not get exhausted. Power is in the

compassion regulating action. axle of a great vehicle.



THE IMAGE: Fences opened up, one does not get exhausted—it

■ First yang: With power in the feet, an expedition bodes ill, is valuable to go.

having certainty.

This represents using flexibility to balance firmness, achieving correctness of

With power in the feet, that certainty comes

THE IMAGE: great power. This is how to get rid of troubles without injuring the spirit.

to an impasse. Using this to bear the world, there is gain wherever one goes.

Although we say that the great must be correct, we must realize that it is the



correct who are great. If you presume upon greatness as being correct, then ■ 5 yin: Losing the ram in ease, there is no regret. correctness turns into aberration. If you presume upon power as being great,

that greatness cannot last long. If you presume upon correctness as being THE IMAGE: Losing the ram in ease, the position is not powerful, that power will surely deteriorate. This is why ancient political appropriate.

guidelines teach the gentle mastery of high illuminates.

Now this first yang represents excessive strength that is not balanced. To When one is flexible and balanced, there is no attitude of rambunctious

proceed in an adamant and unbalanced way will surely lead to bad results. strength, so there is no regret. "The position is not appropriate" means



THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING