I CHING 62. Small Excess 229



The two yang lines in the center of the hexagram resemble the back of a Here one is doubly strong but unbalanced, and responds to weakness above,

bird; on both sides are two yin lines, which resemble two unfolded wings: like a bird that cannot take the lead and so instead flies off on high. Since

hence the image of a flying bird. If the bird flies upward, the wind opposes it one does not take precautions in excess, there will be pursuers attacking

and its cry becomes inaudible; if it flies downward, the wind goes along with one—how unfortunate!

it and its cry becomes audible.



■ 4 yang: No fault, meeting here without excess.

THE IMAGE: Thunder over a mountain—small excess. Genteel To go is dangerous; it is necessary to be cautious and not do it.

people are exceedingly deferential in conduct, exceedingly sad Always be correct.

in mourning, and exceedingly abstemious in consumption.

THE IMAGE: Meeting here without excess, the position is not

Deference is a remedy for arrogance; pity is a remedy for disregard; ab- right. It is dangerous to go, requiring caution; after all, it

stemiousness is a remedy for extravagance. The remedy uses excess to make cannot last.

up for lack, seeking only to attain equilibrium.

The third yang represents people who believe that their strength is correct



■ and consider themselves faultless; thus they do not take precautions and

First yin: The flying bird brings misfortune.

bring on attack. The fourth yang represents those whose position is not right

THE IMAGE: and who know themselves to be at fault. The fourth corresponds with the The flying bird brings misfortune.

Nothing can be done about it. first, thus "meeting here without excess." But only if the first comes and

obeys the fourth, so that the fourth is the leader, is there then no fault. If the

Here yin is not balanced correctly. It responds to the fourth yang, going up- fourth goes and obeys the first, so that the first becomes the leader, liking to

ward when it should go downward. Misfortune cannot be helped. go upward and not liking to go downward, then the first is unfortunate and

the fourth is in great danger too. Therefore it is necessary to be cautious and



■ not do it. It is imperative always to maintain the correctness according to

2 yin: Going past the grandfather, you meet the mother.

which it is not appropriate to go up but is appropriate to go down—then

Not reaching the ruler, you meet the administrator.

one can last.

There is no blame.



THE IMAGE: Not reaching the ruler—the administrator is not to ■ 5 yin: Dense clouds do not rain, coming from one's western be surpassed.

province. The prince shoots, catching the quarry in the den.

If one here wants to progress upward, one must pass the "grandfather" of

the fourth yin, to meet the "mother" of the fifth yin. But the two yins do not THE IMAGE: Dense clouds do not rain—they have already risen.

correspond, and the second yin is flexible, balanced, and upright, and is also

Here one is weak and aberrant, with no partner below. Though one may be

in a state of calm, so it does not go further up to the "ruler" of the fifth yin,

ruler of the land, no benefit extends to the populace. This is like clouds com-

only meeting the "administrator" of the fourth yin. Thus we know that even

ing from one's western province, not raining even though they are dense. So

though the fourth yin is an administrator, it really has virtue and certainly

this allows the "prince" symbolized by the fourth yin to preside over the

cannot be surpassed. The second and fourth have the same merit but differ-

wise people below, like one who shoots the quarry in the den, which does

ent positions, so it is reasonable that they should meet.

not require much effort. This is all because the fifth yin has already risen,

violating the correctness of descending when it is inappropriate to ascend.

■ 3 yang: One does not take precautions in excess, so pursuers



attack one. This is unfortunate. ■ Top yin: Passing by without meeting—the flying birds leave.

THE IMAGE: This is unfortunate. This is called calamity. Pursuers attack one. How unfortunate!



230 THE BUDDHIST