13. Sameness with People THE BUDDHIST I CHING 71



THE IMAGE: ■ 5 yang: In sameness with people, first there is weeping, later And if you are the same as people outside the gate,

who can blame you? laughter. The great general conquers, and meets others.



The way of sameness with people calls for impartiality and impersonality. THE IMAGE: The reason sameness with people is in front is that

Here there is correct strength in the beginning without a linking correspon- it is the middle way. In a meeting with the great general, his

dent at a higher level, so if one goes "outside the gate," one can thus get to words overcome.

the wilderness, so there is no blame.

In the second yin, recessive flexibility is balanced correctly; this is the

guideway for fire, the intellect. This corresponds with the fifth yang, in what

■ 2 yin: Sameness with people in the clan is regrettable. is called sameness in spite of nonsameness, which is true sameness. True

sameness was blocked by the third and fourth yangs, so it was impossible to

THE IMAGE: Sameness with people in the clan is the road to

avoid weeping and employing the great general to overcome them.

regret. The fifth yang is balanced, so he meshes perfectly with the second yin and

does not doubt what he had to do. He is honest, so he weeps and uses arms,

The second yin is in its place, in balance, so it can correspond with the cre-

without any qualms.

ative. This is why this hexagram is called Sameness with People. But since re-

cessive flexibility cannot get far, if you are this way at any given time, you



may fall into the company of whoever happens to be around and become ■ Top yang: Sameness with people in the countryside involves no

one of them willy-nilly. Eventually you will regret this.

regret.



■ THE IMAGE: Sameness with people in the countryside is when

3 yang: He hides fighters in the bush; he climbs the high hill.

the aspiration has not yet been attained.

Three years without flourishing.



One commentator says that there is no regret because one does not try to

THE IMAGE: One hides fighters in the bush because the enemy

force sameness unreasonably, but the aspiration is not yet attained because

is strong. Three years without flourishing is calm activity.

no one stands with one.

The second place in a hexagram corresponds with the fifth place. Here, the Interpreted in terms of contemplating mind, each of the six lines again

second yin is not something that the third yang can force sameness with. The illustrates the efforts inspired by desire to realize sameness with people.

third yang wrongly seeks the sameness, so he hides fighters to lie in wait and If you want to experientially enter the reality nature that is the same for all

climbs the high hill to spy. people, you need to use the power of concentrated insight. You cannot do it

The fifth yang represents strength that is balanced and correct, both in by conscious seeking, but you cannot get it by mindlessness either. As they

name and reality. This cannot be opposed by the irrational strength of the say, when the right time comes, the design will be self-evident. This is the

third yang. secret of cultivating the mind—do not forget, but do not try to help.

The first yang represents accurate insight and true wisdom appearing,



■ 4 yang: He mounts the wall but does not succeed in the attack. The second yin represents having correct concentration but lacking suffi- without effort; then one can go out of the gate of birth and death.

This is lucky. cient power of insight, still not escaping being fascinated by meditation, and

not getting out of the old "clan" of the realms of desire, form, and formless

THE IMAGE: It was right that he did not succeed when he

experience.

mounted the wall. The luck is that he will return to order when

The third yang represents only using insight, claiming to be right, but not

he reaches the impasse.

having any concentration to sustain it. Therefore it is like climbing to the top

The image of fire is that of a wall. The fourth yang also wrongly desires of a high hill and becoming one of the bodhisattvas that fall at the peak, "not

sameness with the second yin, so he tries to climb the wall of the third yang flourishing for three years."

to attack her. But justice informs him that he must be thwarted, so he can The fourth yang represents concentration and insight evenly balanced;

return to order and not attack anymore. whereas there was a sense of anticipation at first, now one knows that ex- 72 THE BUDDHIST