61. Sincerity in the Center 225 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



not inside, not outside, not in between, not in the past, not in the present, ■ 2 yang: The calling crane is in the shade; the fledgling joins it.

not in the future. When we look for it, we cannot grasp it—this can be I have a good cup, which I will quaff with you.

called utterly empty. But for this, the sky has no way to cover; but for this,

THE IMAGE: The fledgling joining it is the heart's desire.

the earth has no way to support; but for this, the sun and moon have no way

to shine; but for this, beings have no way to grow; but for this, sages have no

Here strength attains balance but is below two yins. This represents one who

way to proceed.

is obscure but daily becomes more illustrious. The crane calls, the fledgling

Comprehending things without missing anything can be called ultimate

joins in; the sensitive response comes from nature and involves no arrange-

fulfill ment. Emotional attachments are fundamentally empty, while the sub-

ment or forced effort. Therefore it is called the heart's desire. Here "the fledg-

stance of mind is truly real and certainly cannot be called empty. The sub-

ling" does not have a specific reference; it just means someone of similar

stance of the pattern of nature and being is fundamentally real, while ap-

qualities in a relationship of mutual trust and sincerity.

pearances are the same as illusions and dreams; they cannot be called real.

Therefore flexibility and firmness are not two things, the inside and the

center are not two places. Only those who know this can be called upright, ■ 3 yin: Finding a mate, one sometimes drums, sometimes stops,

can cross rivers, and can reach simplicity in sincerity, thus leading to good sometimes cries, sometimes sings.

fortune.

THE IMAGE: Sometimes drumming, sometimes stopping,

the position is not appropriate.

TF E IMAGE: There is wind over a lake, with sincerity in the

center. True leaders consider judgments and postpone If we look at the whole hexagram, the third and fourth lines are what is

execution. referred to as flexibility being within. But now we are talking about each of

the lines individually, in which case the third yin is not balanced or upright;

True leaders know that when people do wrong, sometimes it arises from originally it should correspond with the top yang, but the latter has as-

circumstances beyond their control; if they know how the people feel, they cended to the skies and calls alone, not paying any attention to the former.

are sympathetic and sad for them, so they consider their judgments, giving Nearby, the third yin finds the fourth yin, which is a mate of the same kind;

weight to the people's merits and trying to minimize their faults. When it therefore there is sometimes delight in what one has found, so "one some-

comes to execution, they would prefer to let the wayward slip by than to kill ti mes drums," but sometimes there is resentment in the relationship, so one

the innocent. In this way, if one person is executed, everyone will submit "sometimes stops." Sometimes one thinks of the top yang afar, so one "some-

and, even if executed, will not hate the executioner. ti mes cries," and sometimes one temporarily enjoys the fourth yin, so one

"sometimes sings." All of this is due to lack of virtuous qualities and being



■ out of place. First yang: Preparedness leads to a good outcome.

If there is something else, one is not at rest.

■ 4 yin: The moon is almost full. When the horse's mate

THE IMAGE: The good outcome of the first yang's preparedness

disappears, there is no fault.

is because the mind is not changed.

THE IMAGE: The horse's mate disappearing means breaking

Developed people are wary of what they may not notice. This is setting to

with peers to go higher.

work before the arising of a single thought. The fundamental essence is itself

the work, the work is itself the fundamental essence. Therefore one can go Here flexibility is correctly oriented. This is one in whom hidden virtues are

unrecognized and not regret it. This is what is called being obscure yet daily well developed, who is therefore like the moon approaching fullness. The

becoming more illustrious. - third yin wrongly wants to be one's mate, but one must get rid of that asso-

As soon as a thought arises, this is called "something else." Then the mind ciation and rise higher to unite with universally impartial sincerity in the

changes, and one is not at rest. The shameless adventurism of undeveloped center, in order to be without fault.

people seeking a stroke of luck starts from a single thought; so it is best to be

prepared at the outset.



226 THE BUDDHIST