35. Advance THE IMAGE: Advancing, impeded, one carries out what is right

earth below, fire above alone. Being easygoing, without blame, is not accepting fate.



Advancing, a securely established lord is presented with All six lines of Advance correspond to those who illumine the quality of en-

horses in abundance and grants audience three times a day. lightenment by themselves and thus renew the people, but the times and

positions are not the same, and what is developed is also different, so good

If one is very powerful and upright, then one can advance to the realm of and bad, regret and shame, are differentiated.

self-help and helping others. In this peaceful and secure time, a wise lord The first yin represents concentration that has matching insight and is also

gains the favor of a sage ruler and is given many horses as a rich reward. pliable; therefore it is possible to make progress and advance. However, it is

"Granting audience three times a day" signifies diligence in dealing with the at the bottom of the hexagram, and in correspondence with the "squirrels"

people. of the fourth yang, who are not good companions; so it is certainly not ap-

In terms of contemplating mind, subtle observing knowledge is the "se- propriate to progress quickly. Hence there is obstruction and one is impeded.

curely established lord," and increasing virtues in conformity with essence But advancement and impediment are both externals—what have they to

is being "presented with horses in abundance." Witnessing the noumenal do with one's self? Just remain correct, and it will turn out well. Even if this

body of reality is "granting audience three times a day." is temporarily insufficient to gain trust, just deal with it in an easygoing

manner, and in the end there will be no blame.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Advance is progress. Light emerges When it says that "one carries out what is right alone," this means one has

. self-confidence and does not seek to be acknowledged by others. When it

over the ground, following and cleaving to great illumination

speaks of "not accepting fate," this is what the philosopher Mencius was re-

Flexibility progresses and moves upward; therefore a securely

ferring to when he said, "Fate has its own nature; developed people do not

established lord is presented with horses in abundance and

speak of fate."

grants audience three times a day.

I42 THE BUDDHIST