43. Decision (Parting) 169



■ The Image: Moisture rises to the sky, which then parts with not understand one's actions, though one may be irritated, nevertheless the

way to influence undeveloped people must be like this, so in the end there is

it. Thus do developed people distribute wealth to those below.

If they presumed on their virtue, they would be resented. no fault.



Wealth should be distributed; virtue should be accumulated. If wealth is not ■ 4 yang: With no flesh on the buttocks, one walks haltingly. distributed, then blessings dry up; if virtue is not accumulated, then the

Leading the sheep, regret disappears. The words heard are not

basis is lost. When wealth is distributed to those below, it is possible to edu- believed. cate people thereby; but if this virtue is presumed upon, it will lead to com-



placency, and people will resent it. THE IMAGE: One walks haltingly, being out of place. The words

heard are not believed, because of not hearing clearly.



■ First yang: Vigorous in the advancing feet, going but For the fourth yang, the lines below are "buttocks." The lines below are pure

not prevailing is faulty. hardness, without softness, like bones without flesh. Since there is no flesh

on the buttocks, one will walk haltingly and not make progress. If one has

THE IMAGE: To go without prevailing is faulty.

the sheep be in front and follows up behind, one is still leading the sheep,

When strength is not balanced, one should not go forward; if one still but regret can disappear. But because strength is not balanced properly, on

goes forward vigorously, this will only be self-defeating. Then how can one hearing these fine words one will certainly not believe. The "sheep" here is

prevail? the top yin, which is the director of the trigram lake, representing joy; the

fourth yang should lead this and not part from it, and also should not com-

pete with it for precedence.

■ 2 yang: When there is a cry of alert, even if there are attackers



in the night, there is no worry. ■ 5 yang: A hill of amaranth; parting with what is to be parted

THE IMAGE: There is no worry when there are attackers, with, balanced action is faultless.

because one has attained balance.

THE IMAGE: Balanced action is faultless, but balance is not yet

Here strength is in balance, and one knows enough to be wary and alert. obvious.

Once accumulated virtue is complete, one can be untroubled even when

The top yin is soft and weak, like the amaranth plant; but it is on top of five

there are attackers.

yangs, like amaranth on a hill. Everyone can walk over it; does this alone not

indicate the quality of submissiveness? Is this alone not "what is made by

■ 3 yang: Vigor in the face involves misfortune. Developed the whole body of the absolute containing the whole body of the absolute"?

people part decisively and travel alone. Encountering rain, if Here it is appropriate to part with what the other yangs part with, but still

they get wet there is irritation but no fault. preserve and nurture it; this is the path of balanced action, whereby it is

possible to be faultless. However, when parting, after all one does not avoid

THE IMAGE: Developed people part decisively and are faultless

distinguishing between developed and undeveloped people, though one still

in the end. does not forget what is universally the same in everyone—therefore "bal-

When excessively adamant and unbalanced, anger shows in the face; exces- ance is not yet obvious." In Return (number 24), sages carefully preserve the

sive strength inevitably breaks down, and leads to misfortune. In view of faint yang; in Decision/Parting, they carefully preserve the remaining yin—

neither yin nor yang can be wholly abandoned.

these facts, developed people have no reason not to take upon themselves

the decision to part, leaving the other four yangs above and below them,

going on alone to pursue the reasonable course of correspondence with the ■ Top yin: No call; in the end there is misfortune.

top yin. Then yin and yang influence each other by their qualities and har-

monize with each other. One in this position soon encounters rain and gets THE IMAGE: The misfortune of no call is that there

cannot be growth at the end.

wet; but even though the other yangs do not know one's intention and do

170 THE BUDDHIST