51. Thunder

■ First yang: When thunder comes, there is alarm, afterward

thunder below, thunder above laughter. This is auspicious.



Thunder comes through. When thunder comes, there is

THE IMAGE: When thunder comes, there is alarm—fear brings

alarm, then laughter. Thunder startles for a hundred miles, fortune. There is laughter—afterward there is a model. but one does not lose spoon and wine.

All six lines illustrate the way to cautiously practice introspection, but there

In Buddhist terms, as soon as a single thought begins to stir, you examine it are distinctions of excellence and inferiority of quality, appropriateness or

in terms of four phases—before the arising of the thought, on the verge of otherwise of position; therefore good and had outlooks are distinguished.

arising, during the thought, and after the thought; this is called alarm. Then The first yang represents strength correctly oriented, and is the master of

you realize it has no essence and no origin; this is called laughter. thunder, which stands for stirring, movement, and action. The best people to

The random arising of various bedeviling phenomena, such as objectifica- take charge of things are those who are most developed; this is obviously

tions of afflictive habits, is called "thunder startling for a hundred miles." auspicious.

Not losing the techniques of concentration and insight is called "not losing

spoon and wine."

■ 2 yin: Thunder comes—dangerous. Remembering that you

have lost your treasure, you climb nine hills. But do not pursue

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Thunder comes through. When it; in seven days you will get it. thunder comes, there is alarm—fear brings fortune. Then there

is laughter—afterward there is an example. Startling for a THE IMAGE: The danger of thunder coming is mounting the

hundred miles, it startles those far away and terrifies those unyielding.

nearby. If you come out, you can thus preserve the ancestral

The second yin rides on the unyielding strength of the first yang, which rep-

shrine and the earth and grain shrines, and so be the master of

resents a fearsome companion who awes and refines you. Because of this

ceremonies.

you become profoundly concerned, and use this to slough off your habitual

When you are afraid, you can bring about good fortune; you cannot expect weaknesses, and remember how you have carelessly lost your treasure of

gratuitous fortune. As it is said, fortune is born of worry and trouble. When balanced and upright pure goodness. Then you climb right up onto the nine

you are not careless even as you laugh, then you do not lose your standards. hills of high illumination. Do not concern yourself any further with seeking

Only by virtue of a lifetime of this sort of development can you go forth for it, for in "seven days," when you return to your original state, those

alone in emergencies that "startle those afar and terrify those nearby," from qualities of balanced and upright pure goodness will be there as ever.

which other people all flee, and stand up to them with a steady mind.

Thus you can preserve the ancestral shrine and the earth and grain shrines,

and be master of ceremonies, meaning that you can protect the people and ■ 3 yin: The thunder is faint. Act vigorously, and there will be no

the land, and fulfill the role of leadership. This is "not losing spoon and wine." trouble.

194 THE BUDDHIST