I CHING 20. Observing 95



In Buddhist terms, this means helping people by influencing them rightly THE IMAGE: Wind travels over the earth—observing.

and being trusted by everyone. Kings of yore examined the regions and observed the people

In terms of contemplating mind, this means that progressive cultivation to to set up education.

cut off delusion requires the use of subtle observation.

In Buddhist terms, the ancient Buddhas examined the "regions" of possible

But when you make your spirit and will always like one who has washed

experience and observed the people in various states of being, then set up

the hands but not presented the offering, then in both social affairs and

various teachings to accommodate them, just as the wind travels over the

Buddhist affairs, helping yourself and helping others, "there is sincerity that

earth reaching everywhere.

is reverent," worthy of respect.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: The great observed on high, ■ First yin: Naive observation is blameless in undeveloped people

harmonious, shows the world balance and rectitude. Observing, but shameful in developed people. having washed the hands but not presented the offering, there

is sincerity that is reverent. Those below observe it and are THE IMAGE: The naive observation represented by the first yin

transformed. Observing the spiritual way of heaven, the four is the way of underdeveloped people.

seasons are orderly. Sages use the spiritual way to establish

Those who are weak and lowly cannot see far, so they are ignorant like chil-

education, and all the world accepts.

dren. When undeveloped people are like children, this is not considered

Positive strength on high shows the world the virtues of balance and rec- bad, but if developed people are like children, there is no way to govern na-

titude, harmonious and agreeable; therefore it is as in a ceremony when one tions and bring peace to earth.

has washed the hands but not yet presented the offering; sincerity built up



within shows outwardly, so that people understand it without anything ■ 2 yin: Peeking observation is beneficial for a woman's chastity. being said about it.

That which is sacred and unknowable is called spiritual. Heaven does not

THE IMAGE: Peeking observation and the chastity of a woman

say anything, but the four seasons go on, unfathomably; therefore it is called

can also be shameful.

the spiritual way. People establish education on this pattern, which all follow

without knowing why. This refers to observing from within; this may be appropriate for women

The spirit is truthfulness, truthfulness is sincerity, sincerity is the heart of who stay at home, but not for men in charge of civil affairs.

humanity. The heart of humanity is basically harmonious, docile, balanced,

and upright; mind impresses mind, so there is spontaneous acceptance

without the need to present an offering. ■ 3 yin: Observing personal growth, advancing and

In Buddhist terms, "the great observed" refers to the subtle observation of withdrawing.

the absolute; "on high" refers to transcendence of all unenlightened states of

mind. "Harmonious" means not deviating from essential nature, and being THE IMAGE: Observing personal growth, advancing and

omnipresent in all phenomena. "Balance" means not falling into either ex- withdrawing, one has not lost the way.

treme of samsara or nirvana; "rectitude" means simultaneous awareness of

Advancing to carry out the way, withdrawing to cultivate the way, if one can

the ultimate truth and the conventional truth, without missing anything.

observe personal growth, then one will not lose the way whether advancing

In politics, the citizens are "those below." In Buddhism, unenlightened

or withdrawing.

states of mind are "those below." In contemplating mind, all auxiliary meth-

ods to foster enlightenment are "those below."

The "spiritual way of heaven" is inherent virtue, which includes the four ■ 4 yin: Observing the glory of the country, it is beneficial to be a

qualities of eternity, happiness, selfhood, and purity; like the four seasons, guest of the king.

these are orderly. "Using the spiritual way to establish education" refers to

complete teaching that is in accord with essential nature; therefore it is ulti- THE IMAGE: Observing the glory of the country is esteeming

mately accepted by those in all realms of consciousness. guesthood.

96 THE BUDDHIST I CH1NG