I CHING 50. The Cauldron 191



mandate is like fire. As long as there is wood, there is fire; when the wood is partner above; this is like the knobs of the cauldron being removed, so that it

exhausted, the fire dies out. If one makes one's position correct by having cannot be moved. Luckily, there are the "yellow knobs" of the flexible bal-

virtuous qualities, then one's mandate will be stabilized. When virtue is lost, ance of the fifth yin, coupled with the "jade handle" of the strength without

the mandate is lost. Therefore it is said, "This mandate is not permanent." excess of the top yang, which can be used to lift the second and third. This is

like yin and yang combining so as to produce rain; thereby regret is removed



■ First yin: When the cauldron overturns on and all turns out well. its base, it is

beneficial to take out what is If one takes the Tao to heart but does not think about putting it to effec-

wrong. When one has a

tive use, it therefore loses its meaning. This is like the saying that there is no

concubine, because of her child there is no blame.

meaning, duty, or justice if it is not put to work. This is to inspire us to prac-

THE IMAGE: When the cauldron overturns on its base, that is tice the Tao in a way that is effective for the time.

not bad. It is beneficial to take out what is wrong, to go along

with what is valuable. ■ 4 yang: The cauldron breaks its legs, spilling your food;

your face drips. This is unfortunate.

The first line is the base of the cauldron; it overturns because it correponds



with the fourth line. When you overturn it along with the uncooked stuff in THE IMAGE: Now that you have spilled your food, what

it, then the unhealthy things that have accumulated there can be taken out. happened to your confidence?

Overturning the base is like taking a concubine; taking out what is wrong

is like having a child. The mother is valued because of the child; because of The fourth line is the top of the belly of the cauldron. Its content fill it, and it

the child it is known that having a concubine is not bad. Through taking out weighs so heavily on the corresponding first yin below that its legs break

what is wrong, it is known that "overturning the base" has merit. under the strain. Your face then drips with sweat and embarrassment. To be-

gin with, you did not know that your virtue was slight, your knowledge



■ 2 yang: The cauldron has content. My enemy is afflicted, position, your plans were great and your responsibility heavy. Now you can- s mall, and your power little. Since you wrongly depended on your noble

but luckily it cannot get to me.

not bear that responsibility—what happened to your self-confidence?



THE IMAGE: The cauldron having content is being careful about

where one goes. While my enemy is afflicted, after all there is ■ 5 yin: The cauldron has yellow knobs and a gold handle.

no resentment. It is beneficial to be correct.



The second line is the bottom of the belly of the cauldron; as yang is strong, THE IMAGE: The knobs of the cauldron are filled

this is construed as having content. The line corresponds with the fifth yin of through the center.

"yellow knobs and gold handle," and is able to preserve this.

Though the first line "overturns the base" and "is afflicted," after all the The fifth line is the knobs of the cauldron; it has the quality of centered bal-

harm does not reach one here. However, for the second position, this means ance, so the color is yellow, which is the color associated with the center. It

receives fulfillment through openness, so it has a golden handle; the golden

it is best to be careful where one goes.

handle refers to the top yang. The handle is fitted through the knobs; the

knobs are used to lift the cauldron. To nurture the wise people throughout

■ 3 yang: The knobs of the cauldron are removed, so its use is the land is the right path of great service of sages.

i mpeded. Pheasant fat is not eaten. When it rains, regret is But the fifth yin originally has no fulfillment of its own; it is fulfilled

removed and all is well in the end. through its correspondence with the centered balance of the strength of the

second yang below. Using this to nurture the world is what is called finding

THE IMAGE: When the knobs of the cauldron are removed,

people for the benefit of the world.

it loses its meaning.



The third line is the middle of the belly of the cauldron; the contents are ■ Top yang: The jade handle of the cauldron is very auspicious, rich, and there is pheasant fat to be eaten. But there is no corresponding beneficial to all.

THE BUDDHIST