12. Obstruction 67



■ First yin: Pulling out a reed by the roots, taking other reeds ■ 4 yang: If there is order, there is no blame. The companions

with it, correctness is auspicious and successful. cleave to blessings.



THE IMAGE: — Pulling out a reed, correctness is auspicious THE IMAGE: If there is order there is no blame because

the will is in the leader. the will is carried out.



All six lines involve the responsibility for rescue from obstruction, and all When one is strong but not upright, if one is in a high position one would

speak of methods of rescue from obstruction, so one should not take the be likely to go wrong. But when obstruction culminates and tranquillity

bottom three lines as denying humanity. comes, one also gets companions together, cleaving to blessings, so the de-

The first line represents passivity or weakness, or flexible docility, being termination to rescue people from obstruction is carried out.

put in a position where firm, active strength is called for; there are those of

like mind who can help, so "pulling out a reed by the roots takes other reeds

with it," and this bodes well and is successful. ■ 5 yang: Putting a stop to obstruction, great people are

The time, however, is at the beginning of' obstruction, so it is best to think fortunate. But they still keep destruction in mind.

of troubles that may occur and prevent them; that is why the text cautions

THE IMAGE: The fortune of great people is when their position

with the word "correct."

is truly appropriate.



This represents positive strength balanced correctly and put in the position

■ 2 yin: Embracing service, small people are lucky; great people of leadership, corresponding with ministers below in whom flexible obe-

get through obstruction. dience is balanced correctly. Therefore it is possible to put a stop to obstruc-

tion and be fortunate.

THE IMAGE: Great people get through obstruction in the sense However, trouble is always overcome when it has not yet happened, and

that they are not deranged by the crowd. disturbance always arises in what is overlooked. Therefore it is necessary to

be calm yet not forget danger, to live without forgetting death, to be orderly

This line represents flexible docility balanced correctly, responding to the

but not forget disorder. This should be kept firmly in mind. Who but great

leader with positive firmness balanced correctly, represented by the fifth

people can do this?

yang above, who develops people's hearts with humaneness and kindness,

bringing back the celestial fortune. So small people who embrace service to

enlightened order are lucky. ■ Top yang: Overturning obstruction. First there is obstruction,

But from the point of view of the great person in the position of this sec- afterward joy.

ond yin, this is where one sees the world not yet at peace and is still choked

and uneasy at heart; yet it is precisely because of this unease that one can THE IMAGE: When obstruction ends, it collapses.

bring about a successful way through impasses and be invulnerable to mass What can last?

derangement.

When strength is not balanced correctly, first there is obstruction. But when

obstruction ends, then it collapses; it definitely cannot last. Therefore there



■ can be joy afterward. 3 yin: Embracing disgrace.

In Buddhist terms, religious attachment following a path cannot be up-

THE IMAGE: rooted without positive strong knowledge. Embracing disgrace means that the position is not

appropriate. In the first yin, religious attachment is not too deep-rooted, but it is in a

position for positivity; if you can root it out from this one, then all will come

This represents being inwardly strong while outwardly weak. If there is any- out together. Therefore one strives to be correct, for by working correctly

thing you can do to help the rescue of people from obstruction, you will do one will get through auspiciously. Inspiration is a matter for the leader,

it, without concern for petty reputation or petty manners. which here is the true experience of reality.



68 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING