I CHING 52. Mountain 197



stopping and stilling: this is "stilling the back." How can stilling the back thoughts are "not out of place." While not out of place, they are always

allow one to be faultless? Because it means "not finding the body, walking in thinking, so this is not dead quietism; though they think, it is not out of

the garden, not seeing the person." This is faultless. place, so this is not chasing around in confusion. Always thinking, they can

The body is fundamentally not really substantial; only by binding it to- fulfill the function of their place, so all the works that make the world go

gether by emotional desires do we erroneously perceive that there is a body. around flow from this realm of realities. Not being out of place, they can

If we examine it calmly, we see that what is solid in it belongs to earth, what accord with the capacity of their position, so all capabilities that nurture be-

is moist in it belongs to water, what is warm in it belongs to fire, and what is ings return to this realm of realities.

motile in it belongs to air. The eyes, ears, nose, and tongue have different



functions; the four limbs, head, and feet have different names; there are ■ First yin: Stopping the feet, there is no blame. three hundred and sixty joints and eighty-four thousand pores—ultimately

It is beneficial to be always correct.

what is the body?

Since the body cannot be grasped, then as it goes through myriad changes, THE IMAGE: Stop the feet before losing correctness.

how can there be a graspable "person"? Therefore, walking through the gar-

den, one does not see the person. So stillness does not interfere with action; Stopping the feet means stopping at the outset, not allowing oneself to in-

action itself is stillness. Therefore there is no fault. dulge in impulses. Then one will certainly not lose correctness and will be

blameless. However, it is beneficial when always correct. Stop when it is

ti me to stop, go when it is time to go, and you will gain the good fortune of

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Mountain stands for stillness. When

careful stopping.

it is time to stop, then stop; when it is time to go, then go.

When action and repose are timely, then one's path is

illumined. The stillness of the mountain means stopping in the 2 yin: ■ Stopping the calves, they don't rise to follow.

right place. Above and below are opposed, and have nothing The mind is not happy.

to do with each other. Therefore one does not find the body;

walking in the garden, one does not see the person. There is THE IMAGE: Not rising to follow means not retreating to listen.

no fault.

The feet, calves, and thighs all go or stop following the mind. But the feet

Stopping action is repose; stopping stillness is action. When action and repose have no power and cannot act on their own; and when walking, the feet are

are timely, they are both subtle stillness; therefore one's path is illumined. basically themselves still. Now, the position of this second yin is that of the

Stillness does not mean the stillness of "facing a wall." The "right place" calves, and it is yin in a yin position. When stopping, they can forcibly stop

does not mean a specific location. on their own and not follow the mind's movement, so this "not rising to fol-

As phenomena fundamentally do not know each other and do not reach low." This is the path where timing is not missed but by movement or still-

each other, just as the upper and lower trigrams of this hexagram are op- ness. It is by not retreating humbly to listen to orders from the mind that one

posite and do not form a pair, therefore when one seeks the body, one ulti- causes the mind to be unhappy.

mately cannot grasp it, and though one "walks in the garden" there is no



definite "person" to be seen. Merging with the path of light, there is no fault. ■ 3 yang: Stopping at the waist breaks the spine.

Danger affects the heart.

THE IMAGE: The mountains are still. Thus the thoughts of



developed people are not out of place. THE IMAGE: Stopping at the waist, danger affects the heart.



Two mountains stand next to each other, each resting in its place. Therefore The third place is at the boundary, or the "waist." Here yang is in a yang

plants and trees grow on them, animals and birds live on them, lodes of pre- position; this is the master of stillness. This is where the waist is stiff and

cious stones develop in them. Each place is so because of the laws governing inflexible. Above and below originally connect, like a spine. Now, because of

the universe. "breaking the spine" they no longer interconnect, so the danger cannot but

It is not that developed people do not think about this; but they know that affect the heart.

nothing can be grasped outside the place of present manifestation, so their

N.



198 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING