26. Great Buildup beneficial to cross a great river"?



heaven below, mountain above

THE IMAGE: Heaven is in the mountain—great buildup.

Great buildup is beneficial if correct. It is good not Leaders build up their virtues by abundant knowledge of past

to eat at home. It is beneficial to cross a great river. words and deeds.



In one mountain there is the whole body of heaven; on one mental moment

This means building up a way free from error to nurture the world. In poli-

there are the past and present of all worlds. Taking up the "past words" of

tics, this refers to a leader who returns to a way free from error and builds

the whole range of Buddhist teachings, comprehending the "deeds" of the

up the healthy energy of the nation. In Buddhism this refers to great people

myriad virtues of the six transcendent ways, one thereby develops the quali-

returning to the true teaching and developing adepts. In contemplating

ties of one's own mind, thereby building oneself up and using this to build

mind this refers to attaining enlightenment, returning to essence without

up the world.

error, and building up provisions for enlightenment on a large scale. All of

these may be called great buildup.

Whether in worldly or transcendental affairs, to spread beneficial influ- ■ First yang: There is danger; help yourself.

ence and promote development, it is necessary to be correct for there to be

THE IMAGE: There is danger; help yourself—do not get into

any real benefit. To develop others and self equally is impartiality; to refine

trouble.

the mind through experience is essential; therefore "it is good not to eat at

home" and "it is beneficial to cross a great river."

All six lines have the sense of the shining light of strength and honesty,

through which one renews oneself and renews other people. In the first

yang, positive strength is in a low position; at such a time it is appropriate to

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In great buildup, strength and honesty

live in obscurity and pursue one's aspiration. This involves the effort to be

shine, daily renewing their virtues. Strength rises and esteems

wary of danger and first help oneself. Once self-help is complete, then one

the wise. Ability to control power is great rectitude. Not eating

can help others according to circumstances. If one tries to liberate others

at home is good—this is developing the wise. It is beneficial

before having completed work on oneself, then one will get into trouble.

to cross a great river—this is responding to heaven.



The strength represented by heaven and the honesty represented by moun- ■ 2 yang: The car has its axles removed.

tain both have the sense of shining light. Using this to renew virtues daily,

the buildup will be great in depth and breadth—so it is called great buildup. THE IMAGE: The car has its axles removed, but there is no

But what the expressions "beneficial if correct," "it is good not to eat at resentment in the heart.

home," and "it is beneficial to cross a great river" refer to is not setting up

cultivated virtues outside of essential nature; this is cultivation initiated in Strength in balance, one focuses on cultivating concentrated insight. It

conformity with essential nature, the completion of which cultivation is in seems as if one has no interest in taking advantage of the time to carry out

essential nature. the way, but since self-help is properly the basis on which to help others,

Now observe the quality of strength of heaven; it rises to the top end of the therefore there is no resentment in the heart.

hexagram, and the fifth yin is able to honor and esteem it. Furthermore, the

body of the hexagram is still outside and powerful inside. Is this not the way ■ 3 yang: A good horse gives chase. It is beneficial to struggle for

whose basic nature is great rectitude? right. Daily practicing charioteering and defense, it is beneficial

The fifth yin represents the Duality of flexibility in balance, able to nur- to have somewhere to go.

ture wise teachers above to influence the world, and to nurture wise citizens

below to serve the nation; is this not the right way in which "it is good not to THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to have somewhere to go,

eat at home"? It corresponds with the strength of celestial qualities repre - in the sense of joining in the aims of those above.

116 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 2