I CHING 40. Solution 159



■ The third is below the fourth and wishes to carry the fourth, so the fourth First yin: No blame.

regards the third as a toe. The fourth is not yet in the right position and is

THE IMAGE: At the border of hard and soft, it is right that there not as good as the second yang, in which firm strength is balanced. The sec-

should be no blame. ond yang can hunt and catch the "fox" of the third, thereby following the

fifth yin to balance yin and yang. The fourth must await the arrival of the

Solution means that yin and yang arc in harmony. This line represents being

second before it can believe that the toe should be removed. The second and

yin at the beginning, while cooperating with the fourth yang above, being

fourth are both yang, so they are called companions.

right on the borderline of yin and yang; so it is right that there should be no



blame.

■ 5 yin: The developed person here has a solution, which is

fortunate. There is sincerity toward a petty person.

■ 2 yang: Catching the third fox on a hunt, finding a yellow

arrow, correctness brings good fortune. THE IMAGE: The developed person has a solution.

The petty person withdraws.

THE IMAGE: The good fortune of correctness of the second yang

is attaining the way of balance. The fifth and the second are proper correspondents, but the third wants to

ride on the second, so the fifth cannot but have doubts about the second.

Here, because firmness is balanced and cooperates with the flexibility of the

Luckily the "developed person" represented by the second yang is firm and

fifth yin, there is naturally nothing to be suspicious of. The third yin is not

balanced, not correct, but wants to take one over; this is represented as "the balanced, certainly able to achieve a solution, getting rid of the third yin and

third fox." One goes on a "hunt," "catches" it, and gets rid of it, thus getting going up to follow the fifth yin, which is fortunate. Just observe the with-

to join with the flexible balance of the fifth yin; this is correct and leads to drawal of the third yin, and you will believe that the second yang has a

solution.

good fortune.

Yellow is the color associated with the center; an arrow represents a



straight path. By gaining the path of balance and straightforwardness, one ■ Top yin: The lord shoots a hawk on a high wall and gets it, to gets rid of doubts and cooperates with what is right. the benefit of all.



enemies. THE IMAGE: The lord shoots the hawk to solve the conflict.

■ 3 yin: Carrying and riding brings on

It is right to be humiliated. A hawk flies high and attacks skillfully; this represents the third yin, which

"carries and rides." At the time of solution, everyone happily acts as devel-

THE IMAGE: Carrying and riding are both disgraceful. One

oped people do, all except the third yin, who flies to the attack, in conflict

brings on attack by oneself—who else is to blame?

with reason. Though the second "hunts" it, and though the fourth "re-

This line represents weakness, not balanced and not correct, without a part- moves" it, this is because both of them have proper correspondents; they are

ner, wanting to carry the fourth above and ride the second below, unaware not the same as the top yin, which is outside the situation. Also, yang and

that this is not the right way to go. Therefore the second regards this as yin feelings must have each other, so one considers it a "fox," the other con-

"foxy" and hunts it, the fourth regards it as a "big toe" and removes it, the siders it a "toe"—this is not as good as the top yin, who has no emotional

fifth regards it as a "petty person" and repels it, the top regards it as a involvement at all, and just considers it a "hawk." Furthermore, the top yin

"hawk" and shoots it. Is this not the epitome of humiliation? is at the end of the hexagram, the position of the lord. It is flexible, yet cor-

rectly oriented, so it hides its weapon, waiting for the right time to act, thus

getting the hawk, to everyone's benefit.

■ 4 yang: Remove your big toe. When a companion comes,

then you trust.

Interpreting the six lines in terms of contemplating mind, the third yin

THE IMAGE: Removing your big toe, you are not yet represents the confusion that is to be cured, and the other five lines repre-

sent curative methods.

in the right position.

160