I CHING 16. Joy 83



■ 2 yin: Firm as a rock, not procrastinating, correctness bodes well. ■ Top yin: Oblivious in joy, what has come about changes.

There is no blame.

THE IMAGE: Not procrastinating, correctness bodes well, because

it is balanced in the right way. THE IMAGE: Oblivion in joy is at the top. What can last?



This yin, in between two other yi p s, stands for the ultimate of darkness and When joy reaches oblivion, it is time to stop. Any situation that has come

stillness; using darkness to observe light, using stillness to observe activity, about must inevitably change. Due to the change, you get through it; when

one can see what will happen. there is oblivion, you stop it. Thus you may avoid error.

Being "firm as a rock" is the accomplishment of stillness, "not pro-

crastinating" is the accomplishment of activity. Knowing the results of ac-

In terms of Buddhism, the fourth yang represents the person who teaches

tivity and inactivity is what is called knowing the potential of the moment.

in the Buddha's stead; the other lines represent disciples.

The first yin is not balanced, not correct, depending on the bountiful pro-

■ tection of great people and forgetting the work of spiritual cultivation and 3 yin: Looking up in joy, repent. If too late, there is regret.

realization. Therefore the outlook is bad.

THE IMAGE: Looking up in joy, there is regret, because the The second yin represents flexible obedience being balanced and correct,

position is not appropriate. able to instantly understand phenomena, arrive at principles, and embrace

the concrete and abstract worlds in the mind. The inner reality cannot be

The third yin also represents one who lacks real qualities finding joy in look-

changed. Understanding all at once, observing all at once, one does not need

ing up to another; this presents an opportunity to repent and reform one-

much time, and so does not procrastinate. This line represents those who

self. If repentance and reform are too late, then there is regret.

skillfully cultivate the mind and attain a true way of enlightenment, so the

outlook is good.

■ The third yin also represents one who is unbalanced and incorrect. Al- 4 yang: Being the source of joy, there is great gain.

Do not doubt. Companions gather. though one can look up in joy and have some sense of repentance and re-

form, because of being near a strict teacher, yet there is a lack of decisiveness

THE IMAGE: and courage; thus there is the warning that if one is too late, one will have Being the source of joy, there is great gain—

the aspiration is carried out greatly. regrets.

The fourth yang is the master of the hexagram. This represents concentra-

This represents the strength that is a source of joy to the weak who are un- tion and insight evenly balanced, accomplishing the enlightenment of one-

balanced. As for those who are weak but balanced, they keep their up- self and others. Therefore companions firmly trust one, and one's aspiration

rightness, so do not doubt them. If you do not doubt them, then your is carried out greatly.

association will grow stronger. The fifth yin represents weak and warped people who nevertheless are in

positions socially above enlightened teachers and good companions; they



■ are incurable, so they have a "persistent illness." Nevertheless, as long as

5 yin: Chaste in illness, one never dies.

they are in a position of balance, there is still some faith in them, and the

THE roots of goodness in them are not cut off, so they "never die." IMAGE: Being chaste in illness means riding on firmness.

Never dying means not losing balance. The top yin represents people who are flexible yet upright; at the end of

joy, people cannot avoid attaining realization sinking into emptiness, but be-

The second and fifth lines represent balance, so neither gets addicted to joy; cause of the power of their original vows to help others, they still do not

therefore they are chaste. However, the second yin is far from the fourth ultimately enter nirvana. Therefore they are able to turn individual libera-

yang, which is correct, so both action and inaction are always appropriate. tion into means of collective liberation, so there is change that is blameless. If

The fifth yin rides on the strength of the fourth yang, which is not correct, so they remained in nirvana, they would become stagnant, so this cannot last.

it produces illness. However, this is better than inwardly losing self-control

and seeking joy outside.

86 THE BUDDHIST