21. Biting Through 99 THE BUDDHIST l CHING



that speech and silence help each other. Thunder is like expounding the ■ 3 yin: Biting dried meat, finding poison, there is a little shame,

teaching; lightning is like going into concentration and radiating light. but no blame.

In this hexagram, the second and fifth lines, the positions of balance, arc

both yin, representing flexibility; therefore "flexibility attains balance." This THE IMAGE: Finding poison means the position is not

appropriate.

is subtle concentration on the center of all things. As for "moving upward,"



thunder has the image of bursting forth, and fire has the image of reaching At the top of the lower trigram, this represents the gradual deepening of

toward the sky. faults. Also, as yin is in a yang position, this represents having an aberrant

"Although not in place" means that the fifth yin is in a yang position, the

intellect, which is like poison. Obviously this is shameful. However, when

i mage of not having entered into the right state of a bodhisattva. But in con- biting through, one does not commit further error by being presumptuous,

templative practice, concentration and insight are in place, so one can skill- so one can be blameless. fully use nonconceptual observation to control any states that arise.



■ 4 yang: Biting bony dried meat, one finds a metal arrow.

THE IMAGE: Thunder and lightning—biting through. It is beneficial to work hard and be upright. Kings of yore used clear punishments to promulgate the law.

THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to work hard and be upright;

Clear punishments are a means of promulgating the law, just as cutting

one is not yet illumined.

through temporary states is a means of revealing inner qualities.

An animal is shot on a hunt, and the arrow goes into the bone, so that it



■ cannot be pulled out; now, when biting bony dried meat, one finds it and

First yang: Wearing stocks stopping the feet, there is no blame.

should beware of it. This represents faults that have accumulated for a long



THE IMAGE:

"Wearing stocks stopping the feet" means not time. However, being strong without excess, one will surely be able to mas-

ter oneself, so "it is beneficial to work hard and be upright."

acting.



Whether in worldly affairs or Buddhism, "biting through" means biting one- ■ 5 yin: Biting dry meat, finding gold, if one is upright and self and others. In either case, it is necessary to establish control early on

diligent there will be no blame.

and not let matters ferment into something serious. Also, it is necessary to

use hard and soft control appropriately and not let the serious and the light

THE IMAGE: Upright and diligent, blameless—this is finding

get out of proportion. what is appropriate.

The first yang is at the bottom of the hexagram, representing a condition

in which faults are not yet serious. Also, this is a yang position, so yang is Though soft as meat, faults are longstanding; this is like meat that has dried

correct here; therefore it is only like "wearing stocks stopping the feet," out. It is lucky if there is the quality of balance, which is to be valued; this is

which means being able to criticize what is wrong and not to do it, thus like finding gold. Keeping this quality of balance correctly, being diligent

being blameless. and careful, one may return to impeccability.



■ 2 yin: ■ Top yang: Wearing a cangue destroying the ears is unfortunate. Biting through the skin, destroying the nose,

there is no blame.

THE IMAGE: "Wearing a cangue destroying the ears" means not

THE IMAGE: Biting through the skin, destroying the nose, listening clearly.

is riding on strength.

When faults and evils have developed to the point of being irremediable, this

Here flexibility is balanced and correct; faults are easy to correct. Therefore is like wearing a cangue destroying the ears. Generally one comes to this

it is like biting through skin. Because it rides on the strength of the first yang, because one does not listen clearly and does not know how to repent of

faults and take to the good.

therefore it is like destroying the nose.

100 THE BUDDHIST