47. Exhaustion 181 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



Mere words are not believed, because if you value talk you will This represents those who can nurture themselves with strength and bal-

ance when exhausted; so it is called being exhausted, but with food and

come to an impasse.

drink. The fifth yang, with which the second corresponds, represents the

In this hexagram, the strength in the water trigram is below, covered over by leader with positive strength balanced correctly, who will surely reward one

the weakness in the lake trigram; since the strength is covered over, the with a regal robe, enabling one to cooperate in solving the impasse of the

water leaks out and the lake dries up—this is the image of exhaustion. ti me. One should just silently respond with sincerity, like making a cere-

To be joyful even in danger, to adapt to difficulty and carry through in monial offering. If one proceeds abruptly, there will be misfortune; yet the

difficulty, to avoid society without anguish, remaining happy—who but de- aim is to rescue the age, so there is no blame. Celebration within is the for-

veloped people can do this? tune of upright great people.

The second yang and fifth yang both represent strength in balance; this is



the uprightness of great people, the way to good fortune. If you do not ■ 3 yin: Exhausted on a rock, resting on thorns, going into a maintain this uprightness and merely value talk, you will only come to an

house but not seeing the wife—this is inauspicious.

i mpasse.

THE IMAGE: Resting on thorns is riding on the unyielding.

THE IMAGE: The lake has no water—exhausted. Developed Going into a house but not seeing the wife is not a good sign.

people accomplish their will by living out their destiny.

This represents negativity, weakness, imbalance, deviation. It is between two

In this hexagram, water is below the lake, which has no water; it is dried up, yangs: the fourth yang is like a rock, the second like thorns. The top yin does

exhausted—this is its established fate. Developed people only live out their not correspond; this is like going into a house but not seeing the wife. Be-

destiny; they do not willingly try to avoid following and accepting it. Being cause one lacks auspicious virtue, one brings misfortune on oneself.

strong and balanced, they are able to be joyful even in danger; this is the will

that is up to oneself. Developed people intend to accomplish their will and ■ 4 yang: Coming slowly, exhausted in a gold car, there is shame,

do not vacillate just because they run into problems. but there is a conclusion.



THE IMAGE: "Coming slowly" is because the mind is on

■ Sitting exhausted on a tree stump, gone into a dark First yin: something lower. Though one is out of place, there is a

ravine, not to be seen for three years. partner.



THE IMAGE: Gone into a dark ravine, it is obscure and unclear. To deal with exhaustion and come through successfully is something that no

one can do without strength and balance. The fourth yang represents one

The six lines of the hexagram all represent dealing with exhaustion; only

who, when exhausted, still cannot forget his feelings about the first yin, and

strong, balanced great people can avoid losing the way to come through suc-

so comes along slowly. Since his mind is on the first yin, not only does he

cessfully. The first yin is at the bottom; hence the image of sitting. It corre-

not share the virtues of the second yang, he instead gets exhausted in the

sponds with the "tree stump" of the fourth yang above, which cannot give it

"gold car" of the second yang and is shamed. However, the second yang is

protection in a state of exhaustion. Furthermore, the first yin is at the begin-

strong and balanced, and will surely be able to cooperate in solving the im-

ning of danger, which is like having gone into a dark ravine, unable to ap- passe of the time, not abandoning him just because he is out of place; there-

pear for "three years." fore there can be a conclusion.



■ 2 yang: gradually there is joy. It is beneficial to make ceremonial Exhausted, but with food and drink. When the regal ■ 5 yang: Nose and feet cut off, exhausted in a regal robe, robe comes, it is beneficial to make a ceremonial offering. An

offerings.

expedition leads to misfortune, but there is no blame.



THE IMAGE: " Nose and feet cut off" means that the aim is not

THE IMAGE: Exhausted, but with food and drink, there is

celebration within. yet attained. Gradually there is joy because of taking a



182