19. Overseeing

To discuss the six lines in terms of politics, the first is like a wise citizen, the

second is like a cultured official, the third is like a wise general, the fourth is lake below, earth above

like a scheming official, the fifth is like a wise king, the sixth is like a righ-

Overseeing is very successful, beneficial if correct.

teous dissident.

If you go on until the eighth month, there will be

In terms of the promulgation of Buddhism, the bottom three lines are like

misfortune.

outside protectors, the top three lines are like inside protectors. The first yin

is flexible and in a low position; this represents those who exert generosity

In political terms, it is possible to oversee the citizenry after degeneration

to the utmost to obey the Buddha, the Teaching, and the Community. The

has been corrected. In terms of Buddhism, the influence of Buddhism is re-

second yang is strong and balanced; this represents those who protect the

stored after decadence has been reformed. In terms of contemplating mind,

true teaching with the teaching of compassion. The third yang is too strong;

this represents those who protect Buddhism with overwhelming authority. this means getting rid of meditation illnesses and progressively cutting off

delusions; therefore it is very successful.

The fourth yin is flexible yet correct; this represents those who can only

Whether it is politics, Buddhism, or contemplating mind, it is necessary

save themselves and cannot guide others. The fifth yin is flexible and bal-

that the method be correct from beginning to end in order for there to be

anced; this represents those who can guide everyone. The top yang repre-

benefit. If you ride on the momentum of the time and do not know to turn

sents those who practice asceticism and detachment; they seem to have no

back, at a certain point deterioration will inevitably set in, after flourishing

will to teach others, but Buddhism needs such people as models.

has reached its climax, and there will surely be misfortune.

In terms of contemplating mind, the first yin represents those in whom

concentration is originally dominant; this is the degeneration of the father.

But they are in a yang position, so they have the "child" insight; thus there is In overseeing, strength gradually THE OVERALL JUDGMENT:

no blame. However, it is necessary to go through a crisis before it is possible grows. Joyful and harmonious, strength is balanced and

to equalize insight and concentration so that the end turns out well. responsive. Great success in a correct manner is the way of

The second yang represents those in whom insight is originally predomi- nature. In the eighth month there will be misfortune because

nam; this is the degeneration of the mother. But they are in a yin position, waning does not take long.

so they have concentration. However, the reason they attain concentration

is only to foster insight; it will not do to maintain this concentration to Strength gradually grows, so it is called overseeing; joyful and harmonious,

the end. strength is balanced and responsive, so it is very successful. A correct man-

The third yang represents excessive strength that is not balanced, so in- ner means one in harmony with the beneficial consummation of creative

sight turns into degeneration; therefore there is a little regret. But to save the development deriving from the original energy of the universe; this is the

world from decadence it is essential to rely on the power of insight, so there original quality of inherent power.

is no great blame. If you let things go too long and do not prevent reversal early on, then

The fourth yin represents excessive weakness, inability to develop insight; there will surely be misfortune, because whatever grows must wane, as a

if one goes on this way, one will not avoid becoming conceited about one's natural matter of course. Only those who cultivate themselves to conform to

essence can direct the course of nature and not be caused to wax and wane

meditation experiences, and so should be ashamed.

The fifth yin represents flexibility in balance; concentration has equiva- by nature.

lent insight, so one will surely see the way.



The top yang represents insight with equivalent concentration, whereby There is earth above a body of water. Leaders THE IMAGE:

one immediately enters into effortlessness; so one "does not serve kings or use inexhaustibility of education and thought to embrace and

lords" and "makes one's concerns loftier." This means not resting in the protect the people without bound. ranks of the enlightened; therefore "the will can serve as a model."

The body of water stands for the oceans; the earth supports beings, the oceans

support the earth. This is the embrace and protection of the inexhaustible.

92 THE BUDDHIST