29. Multiple Danger 125



danger skillfully, and not being used by danger; then it can be used to govern someone with false views and conceit, who therefore ultimately accom-

society, and on the transmundane plane it can be used to observe the mind. plishes nothing.



THE IMAGE: ■ 4 yin: A jug of wine, with a ceremonial vessel of grain Water comes repeatedly—multiple danger.

Developed people practice teaching by constant alongside. Use a plain cup; take in a pledge through the

virtuous action. window. In the end there is no fault.



Constant virtuous action is indefatigable study. Practicing teaching is in- THE IMAGE: A jug of wine with a ceremonial vessel of grain

structing people tirelessly. The image of multiple danger is that of the mental alongside stands for the border of hard and soft.

method of the sages of all time; danger is not to be feared. This is in perfect

Here flexibility is correctly oriented, coupled with the quality of correctly

accord with the Tiantai Buddhist teaching of knowing how to get through

balanced strength represented by the fifth yang. This is what is called devel-

an impasse, the method of making an impasse itself into a way through; this

oping insight by way of concentration, and is indeed a wonderful way to get

is also the method of skillfully using natural ills.

out of danger.

Accurate observation is like a jug of wine, auxiliary practices are like a

■ First yin: Multiple danger, going into a hole in a pit, ceremonial vessel of grain. Sincere simplicity is like a plain cup, expedient

leads to misfortune. means are like a window, through which one can discover reality and be

faultless.

THE IMAGE: Going from danger into danger is the misfortune

of losing the way.

■ 5 yang: The pit is not filled, only leveled. No blame.

When in danger, whether it is a matter of self-help or helping others, all that

is important is that there be true sincerity and that concentration and wisdom THE IMAGE: The pit is not filled" means the center

balance each other. Now the first yin is negative and in a low position, sym- is not yet great.

bolizing absence of even the slightest sincerity or truthfulness. This rep-

resents sinking into had habits and being unable to extricate oneself Here positive strength is balanced correctly; one has already attained mani-

festation of transmundane true insight. This is like when a pit is not filled to

from them.

overflowing with water; the wind is still, and the ripples settle. But this is

only the initial breakthrough of ignorance; remaining illusions are not yet

■ 2 yang: There is danger in a pitfall; one seeks a small gain. ended, so "the center is not yet great." This just urges us to quickly head for

consummate sagehood.

THE IMAGE: Seeking a small gain, one has not yet

gotten out of the middle.

■ Top yin: Bound with rope, put in a briar patch,

Here strength is balanced, and there is sincerity, but one is still in a low posi- helpless for three years—misfortune.

tion, meaning that ingrained habits are still deeply rooted; one cannot yet

arrive all at once at the realm of the sages, and can only realize a small gain. THE IMAGE: The top yin loses the way, unfortunate

for three years.



■ 3 yin: Coming and going, pitfall upon pitfall, endangered and This is weakness in extreme danger, having concentration without insight.

obstructed, gone into a hole in a pit—do not act this way. This is like the ordinary externalist who practices ignorant concentration

and may reach even to the state where there are no mental images, but ulti-

THE IMAGE: Coming and going, pitfall upon pitfall, in the end

mately cannot get out of bondage to the world. Attachment to views is now

there is no accomplishment.

profound, like being in a briar patch and never being able to get out.

Unbalanced and awry, weak yet stubborn, one thinks one has gotten out of

danger, but is not aware of the coming of the danger ahead. This is like

126 THE BUDDHIST