53. Gradual Progress THE BUDDHIST I CITING 201



people, who should work hard, be wary of danger, and speak up to seek The fourth yin is on top of the third yang, where it cannot really rest; this is

people who can help refine and develop them, just as geese on a shoreline like gradually proceeding into the trees, which is not a place where geese

call for mates. Then they will be blameless. can rest, since they have webbed feet and cannot grasp the branches. They

may, however, find a large, flat branch, where they would have no trouble.



■ The meaning intended here is cleaving to the fifth yang above. By following

2 yin: Geese gradually proceed onto a boulder; they eat and

docilely, it may be possible to be free from trouble.

drink happily. This is auspicious.



THE IMAGE: Eating and drinking happily, they don't just stuff ■ 5 yang: Geese proceed gradually onto a mountaintop.

themselves idly. The wife does not conceive for three years; after all, no one

could overcome her. This is auspicious.

The second yin is in correspondence with the fifth yang. This is like gradu-

ally proceeding onto a boulder, eating and drinking with harmonious de-

THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about no one being able to

light. Cultivating the Tao and awaiting the right time to act, one does not eat

overcome her after all is getting what was wished for.

without working.

The fifth yang is in the honored position, which is like a high mountaintop.



■ Below he corresponds with his wife, the second yin, who is eating and

3 yang: Geese gradually proceed onto high ground. The husband

drinking happily, taking care of herself. As she is untouched by the third

goes on an expedition and does not return; the wife gets

yang, she "does not conceive for three years; after all no one could overcome

pregnant but does not raise the child. This is not good. It is

her," and "this is auspicious." This is like when an enlightened ruler finds

beneficial to defend against enemies.

excellent administrators, thus fulfilling the dream of finding wise people. Is

THE IMAGE: this not delightful? The husband goes on an expedition and does not

return—leaving the group is disgraceful. The wife who gets



pregnant but does not raise the child loses the way. It is ■ Top yang: Geese gradually proceed onto high ground. beneficial to defend against enemies, harmoniously protecting

Their feathers can be used for ceremonies. Good fortune.

one another.

THE IMAGE: What is fortunate about their feathers being

The third yang is like geese gradually proceeding onto high ground; there is

suitable for use in ceremonies is that they cannot be put in

no corresponding partner above, so there is no water. Geese do not mate at

disarray.

random, but the fourth yin also has no corresponding partner and is next to

the third yang. If the third yang "goes on an expedition" to follow the fourth

The top yang is also on high ground, like the third yang. But the high ground

yin, this is leaving the group of geese and is disgraceful. If the fourth yin

of the third yang is the south, where the geese fly in the fall; they go in

goes down to the third yang, this is losing the way, and though she gets preg-

among humans, so they are unfortunate. On the other hand, the high

nant, she does not dare to raise the child. Obviously this is not good. When

ground of the top yang is the north, where the geese go in spring; they rise

those who are not appropriate partners form a private liaison, in reality they

beyond the skies, so they are fortunate. As it is said, when the geese fly out

are enemies. If the third yang remains upright and defends against this, then

of sight, how can hunters shoot them? All that can be done is to look afar for

for him there is no disgrace of leaving the group, and for her there is no

their feathers and use them as ornaments for highly accomplished people.

misfortune of losing the way—then they can harmoniously protect one

Also, when geese fly, those in pairs are ranged behind, while only one

another. with no partner is in the lead. This top yang is beyond things and has no

corresponding partner below. This is like a just and dutiful man in society

■ 4 yin: who is fortunate because his will cannot be deranged. "Using feathers for Geese proceed gradually into the trees and may reach a

level roost without trouble. ceremonies" is a traditional expression for exemplary behavior; in such a

person, the function is great indeed. So it is said, "A sage is the teacher of a

THE IMAGE: Reaching a level roost means following docilely. hundred generations."



202 THE BUDDHIST