10. THE IMAGE: Treading To go treading plainly means to carry out your

vows alone.

lake below, heaven above

In Buddhist terms, this means having the power of accurate insight, thus

Someone treads on a tiger's tail without being bitten, profoundly knowing rankless ranks. Going on this way does not produce

thus getting through.

conceit.



In Buddhist terms, this is when the center of delusion comes under control, ■ 2 yang: Treading the road; it is level. The person in obscurity is and the way of transforming it is working and can be trodden in the sense of

fortunate if upright.

being carried out.



Because one uses kindness to absorb the violence of the center of delu- The person in obscurity is fortunate if upright in THE IMAGE:

sion, therefore it does not bite the person.

the sense of not becoming personally deranged within.

In terms of contemplating mind, after effecting specific remedies, it is nec-

essary to clearly recognize successive stages, in order to accomplish true at- In Buddhist terms, this is when concentrated insight into the center of

tainment of real application. To see mind as in itself enlightened is like tread- everything progresses toward consummate enlightenment and does not be-

ing on a tiger's tail; not getting conceited is like getting through without come complacent but inwardly cultivates the mind so that it can personally

being bitten. witness truth, without seeking the recognition of another. This is the reason

for being fortunate.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Treading is the flexible treading on

the firm. There is joy that is in accord with heaven; this is how ■ 3 yin: The squint-eyed can see, the lame can walk. Treading

on a tiger's tail, they get bitten, unfortunately. A military man

to tread on a tiger's tail and get through without being bitten.

becomes a civil leader.

If one can exercise the position of the overall ruler and not be

remorseful, this is illumination.

THE IMAGE: The squint-eyed can see, but not clearly; the

In Buddhist terms, the flexible treading on the firm may represent using lame can walk, but not well enough to be companions on a

concentration to awaken insight, using culture to harmonize with nature, journey. The misfortune of being bitten is that of being in an

using awakening to seek the highest integration with original awareness, inappropriate place. When a military man becomes a civil

learning to be enlightened while an ordinary person. leader, his determination is adamant.

Attaining delight in truth is called joy. To realize the essence of the cosmic

In Buddhist terms, to know about inherent qualities but not know about

design is called being in accord with heaven.

cultivated qualities is like squinting an eye; to value the exercise of insight

If one can progress to the state of truth without becoming conceited, then

but not the exercise of action is like being lame in one leg. You may think

one can use culture to harmonize with nature and can manage the noble

you can see, but you do not really see true reality; you may think you are a

position of spiritual director.

practitioner, but you cannot really reach the ultimate goal. You talk in lofty

terms about buddha-nature, but you are in fact adversely affected by these

THE IMAGE: words. Originally a crude soldier, you falsely declare yourself a leader of the Above, sky; below, lake—treading. Leaders

stabilize the wills of the people by distinguishing positions. people. Few who do so escape falling into hell.



In Buddhist terms, when we have deep knowledge of the eternal diversity of ■ 4 yang: Treading on a tiger's tail with utmost caution turns out

conscious states in spite of the identity of consciousness with itself, then lucky. we will not mix up steps in the procedure of full realization of complete

consciousness. This is stabilizing the wills of the people by distinguishing THE IMAGE: Utmost caution turning out lucky is determined

positions. action.

60 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 1I. Tranquillity 61



In Buddhist terms, when concentration and insight balance each other, even The inability of strong and gentle demons to cause trouble is what is

if one has not yet realized the center of everything, nevertheless one will meant by "the small goes." The complete development of the power of pa-

progress relentlessly. tience is what is meant by "the great comes."



■ 5 yang: Decisive treading is correct yet dangerous. THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In tranquillity the small goes and

the great comes, getting through auspiciously. This is the

THE IMAGE: Decisive treading is correct yet dangerous;

development of myriad beings due to the combination of

the position is appropriate.

heaven and earth. Above and below communicate, so their

In Buddhist terms, when firm strength is balanced correctly and one is cer- wills are the same. Yang inside and yin outside, strong inside

tain to realize the enlightened nature, from this point on one uses up one's and docile outside, a leader inside and an ordinary person

life to enhance the possibility of enlightenment for all, appearing and disap- outside; the path of a leader goes on and on, while the path of

pearing to influence people, not taking nirvana for personal comfort. an ordinary person vanishes.



In Buddhist terms, if you get the small to go and the great to come, then the

■ Top yang: Observing the treading, considering what is heaven inherent in you combines with the earth that you have cultivated, so

felicitous, the return is very auspicious. that all things develop together. Transcendental mystic enlightenment and

active work in the world combine, so that understanding and action are not

THE IMAGE: When great good fortune is above, there is much separate.

celebration. Inwardly you now have the firmness represented by yang, and outwardly

you display the flexible patience represented by yin. Inwardly you have the

In Buddhist terms, effect permeates cause; when all virtues are completely

power of strong action unceasing, while outwardly you have the means to

fulfilled, we return to our original nature. Because we attain our original

adapt to the world. Inwardly you are a leader on the way to enlightenment,

aspiration for awakening, this is very auspicious.

while outwardly you are an ordinary person in the same continuum of men-

tal experiences.

Because it can transform all realms of mental experience, so that they be-

come objects of enlightenment, the path of such a leader goes on and on,



II. while the path of an ordinary person dies out. Tranquillity



heaven below, earth above

THE IMAGE: When heaven and earth commune, there is

Tranquillity. The small goes and the great comes,

tranquillity. Thus does the ruler administer the way of heaven

getting through auspiciously.

and earth and assist the balance of heaven and earth, so as to

influence the people.

In worldly terms, this is when there is true communication of mind between

rulers and ruled, so that the country is tranquil. In Buddhist terms, the way of heaven and earth is inherent concentrated

In Buddhist terms, this is when the way of enlightenment is in effect and insight; the balance of heaven and earth is the balanced use of concentration

the methods it uses are working calmly. and insight. Administration and assistance mean using culture to supple-

In terms of contemplating mind, this means profound understanding of ment nature. Influencing the people means that one is not destroyed by de-

the various grades of self-realization, and cultivating experience surely with- mons, strong or weak, and so can use these two kinds of demons as servants.

out becoming conceited.

This also can be taken to refer to calm endurance of both strong and weak

demons, so that the demons recede and the way of enlightenment goes ■ First yang: Pulling out a reed by the roots, other reeds come

through. with it. It is auspicious to go forth.



62 THE BUDDHIST