28. The Passing of Greatness



wind below, lake above ■ First yin: Spreading a mat of white reeds, there is no blame.



When greatness passes, the ridgepole bends. THE IMAGE: Spreading a mat of white reeds means flexibility

It is beneficial to have somewhere to go, for you will in a low position.

succeed.

Whether in worldly affairs or in Buddhism, at the time of the passing of the

In politics, this is when a wise leader nurtures the country and there has great, a balance of firmness and flexibility makes for success, while being

too firm or too flexible makes for failure. This first yin represents flexibility

been peace for a long time. In Buddhism, this is when the path transforms

people and Buddhism flourishes. In contemplating mind, this is when the in a low position, remaining docile, yet in a positive position. Here there is

work progresses and is about to break through ignorance. no fame, wealth, or honor to burden the mind, only ordinary qualities and

When there has been peace for a long time, the beginnings of disorder ordinary speech; studying humbly to attain higher things is one's work here.

inevitably sprout. It is best to prevent it when it is still weak, to stop it from In Buddhist terms, concentration has matching insight and is also refined by

creeping up. When the transformative path is flourishing, contaminations the virtues of discipline; therefore there is no blame.

easily arise; it is best to set up guidelines and regulations. When meditation



work is advanced, ignorance is about to dissolve; it is best to exercise the ■ 2 yang: A withered willow produces sprouts, an old man gets a

mind skillfully.

girl for a wife; none do not benefit.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: " " The passing of greatness An old man getting a girl for a wife has her for a

means the THE IMAGE:

great passes. "The ridgepole bends" means that root and branch companion in spite of being older.

are weak. Strength is predominant yet balanced; it is docile

This represents strength in balance, and also in a recessive position. Yang

and acts joyfully. It is beneficial to have somewhere to go, for

getting help from yin is like a withered willow producing sprouts, like an

you will then succeed. The time of the passing of greatness is

great indeed. old man getting a girl for a wife. In terms of Buddhism, this is insight to-

gether with concentration, like first seeing the way, then afterward practicing

When the great has passed, it is therefore time to think about problems and meditation on phenomena; therefore none do not benefit.

prevent them. In this hexagram, the first and top lines are both weak, so

strength is balanced. It is not good to rely on force and cause disturbance;

though strength is predominant, yet it is balanced, and it is docile and acts ■ 3 yang: The ridgepole bending is foreboding.

joyfully, so there is still a way to restore order and equilibrium. Then success

THE IMAGE: The foreboding of the ridgepole bending is that

is attained. This time is critical for the preservation of tranquillity, and it is

there is no way to help.

also critical for sudden decline at the climax of flourishing; so is the relation-

ship not great? When too obstinate and unbalanced, indulging in stubbornness, if one culti-

vates oneself in this way, one's virtues will surely be ruined, and if one gov-

THE IMAGE: Moisture destroys wood—the passing of greatness. erns society in this way, disturbances will surely arise. Therefore the ridgepole

Developed people stand alone without fear, avoid society bends, and this is foreboding. In terms of Buddhism, this is only using mis-

without distress. guided intelligence, so there is no way to help.



Moisture originally nourishes wood, but also can destroy it; this is the image

of the passing of greatness. Only when sustained by the power to stand ■ 4 yang: The ridgepole is raised. This is auspicious,

alone without fear and avoid society without distress can learning be firmly but there is another shame.



122 THE BUDDHIST