I CHING 42. Increase 165

harmony is then carried out. Increase moves and tames, ■ 2 yin: One is given ten sets of tortoise shells; none can oppose.

progressing daily, without bound. Heaven disburses, earth It bodes well to be always correct. It bodes well for the king to

make offerings to God.

produces; that increase is not localized. The path of increase

always goes along with the time.

THE IMAGE: What one is given comes from outside.

In terms of Buddhism, this means bringing the realm of enlightenment down

Here flexibility is balanced correctly, thus receiving benefit from the correct

to benefit those in other states of mind; therefore the people "rejoice bound-

balance of positive strength of the fifth yang. One is blessed psychologically,

lessly." Enlightenment, which is basically transcendental, is manifested on a

not materially, so one can cause everyone to believe in one and bring pre-

lower plane, so it "descends from above to below," and "that path is great

cious gifts. As an administrator, it is good to be always correct and not let

and brilliant."

help from heaven or from other people change one's attitude. As a ruler, it is

Celestial action and the action of sages are called "balance and rectitude."

good to make offerings to God, renewing oneself and renewing the people,

Pure conduct initiates innocent and compassionate action; this is called "the

so that the mandate of rulership is thereby refreshed. When the image says

path of harmony then being carried out." that what one is given comes from outside, this means that it is not antici-

Emanating illumination and manifesting wonders move people; explain-

pated, because there is no calculating selfishness.

ing the truth intelligently tames them.

Opening up complete understanding to reveal inherent qualities is called

the disbursal of heaven. Establishing rounded behavior to complete culti- ■ 3 yin: Enhancement through unfortunate events is blameless.

vated qualities is called the production of earth. Sincere and balanced in action, one presents impartial use of

Seeding, maturing, liberating, teaching in terms of the world, or to cure authority.

specific ills, or to develop individuals, or in terms of ultimate truth, is called

THE IMAGE: There has always been such a thing as

"going along with the time."

enhancement through unfortunate events.



THE IMAGE: Wind and thunder increase. Thus do developed This represents being unbalanced and awry, at the top of the lower echelon,

people take to good when they see it, and correct whatever and being subjected to the attack of the highest power. Being subjected to

faults they have. this attack is what benefits one. If one knows that unfortunate events truly

can benefit one, then one will be blameless.

The drumming of the wind represents the swiftness of taking to good; the Although one is not in a state of balance, if one is sincere one can act in a

stirring of thunder represents the courage to correct faults.

balanced way and thus can present impartial use of authority. Impartiality is

characteristic of the highest power, and authority is used to get a message



■ through. Once the message goes through, the authority is returned to the

First yang: It is beneficial to undertake to do great work.

public domain and not used for personal gain. The only personal gain one

If it turns out very well, there is no blame.

receives is through being subjected to impartial criticism.

THE IMAGE: Only if it turns out well is there no blame, Ordinarily people always think that unfortunate events are not beneficial;

because it is not for those in low positions to be deeply it is sages who realize that there has always been such a thing as benefit from

concerned with affairs. unfortunate events. If one can believe that misfortune is beneficial, then it is

no longer unfortunate.

At the beginning of increase is when one receives benefit from those above

most richly. Because one receives this rich benefit while in a low position,

one can relax and do nothing; but as long as one is strong and upright, and ■ 4 yin: Balanced action openly expressed is followed

is also in charge of action, one will surely be able to do great work that will i mpartially. It is beneficial to use this as a basis to move the



turn out very auspiciously, one thus avoids blame. center of operations.

so



THE IMAGE: Open expression of impartial following is because of the beneficial aim.

166 THE BUDDHIST