I CHING 58. Delight 215



the qualities, one cannot make changes. The fifth yang represents one whose others find satisfaction in this, they too are delighted. How can joy not

qualities and position are in mutual accord; therefore, attaining correctness come through?

of following, there is good fortune, regret vanishes, and none do not benefit. However, developed people do not enjoy attempts to delight them with

But once things have changed, there is no beginning; when the change is what is not right, so delight is only beneficial if correct. As the classics say,

right, therefore there is an end. Also, it is necessary to be careful "three do not destroy people to follow your own desires; do not deviate from the

days" before a change, and it is also necessary to first assess "three days" right path to win people's praise.

after a change; then it will be auspicious.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: The lake stands for delight. Strength

■ in balance, flexible outside, delight is beneficial if correct; this Top yang: The obedient are below the platform. Losing resources

and tools, it is right that there be misfortune. is how to obey heaven and respond to humanity. When the

people are led with delight, the people forget their toil; when

THE IMAGE: The obedient are below the platform; above there difficulty is entered into with delight, the people forget their

is an impasse. Losing resources and tools, it is proper that death. The greatness of delight is how it inspires the people.

there be misfortune.

When strength is balanced, there is no biased selfishness of emotional de-

With positive strength at the top of the hexagram, one places the obedient in sires; when flexible outside, there is no belligerence or violence. This is the

the positions of the fifth and second yangs below one's platform, while one is most correct delight, the virtue shared by heaven and earth. If the people

at an impasse above yet doesn't know it. Therefore the resources and tools of are led with this virtue, the people will naturally forget their toil. If difficulty

the first and fourth yin are employed by the second and fifth yangs, and do is entered into with this virtue, the people will naturally forget their death.

not work for one in the top position. That misfortune is proper and cannot This is the greatness of delight; the people inspire themselves and transform

be avoided. each other for the better. It does not mean someone else urges them on.



To interpret the six lines in terms of Buddhism, the first represents medi- THE IMAGE: Joined lakes are joyful. Thus do developed people

tation on worldly phenomena. There is progress, and there is also regression. study and practice with companions.

The second represents insight into emptiness. Here one should use "scribes

and mediums" to get in touch with the manifestations of reality. The third When lakes are joined, they do not dry up; when learning is done with as-

represents infertile intellectual insight, which cannot be kept securely. The sociates, it is not isolated and narrow. Associating with companions in cul-

fourth represents transmundane meditation, which has many virtues. The tural pursuits is study; fostering humanity through association is practice.

fifth represents accurate insight into the center of all things, which takes dif- Study without practice leads to nothing; practice without study leads to

ferentiating understanding into complete understanding, so it has no begin- danger. Study, and what is said does not go against the unsaid; practice, and

ning but has an end. The top represents aberrant insight, which destroys the unsaid proves to tally with what is said. Also, when you study, the unsaid

is said; when you practice, what is said becomes the unsaid.

good qualities.



■ First yang: Harmonious delight is auspicious.



THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about harmonious delight is



58. that action is not doubted. Delight



lake Strong and upright, without a correspondent, one harmonizes without imi- below, lake above

tating. This is correct delight. Because there is no selfishness, there is no

Delight comes through, beneficial if correct.

doubt.



When one gets through, one is fulfilled; when one is fulfilled, one is

delighted. When one is fulfilled, others find satisfaction in this; when ■ 2 yang: Sincere delight is auspicious. Regret vanishes.

216