I CHING 11. Tranquillity 63



THE IMAGE: Pulling out reeds, going forth to success, means ■ 4 yin: Unsettled, not prosperous, one works with the neighbor.

focusing the will beyond. Sincerity is exercised, without caution.



Positive strength is at the beginning of tranquillity; but does that mean one THE IMAGE: Being unsettled and not prospering are both due

should spend one's whole life in a low state? It is by taking similar people

to loss of the real. Exercise of sincerity without caution is the

along to progress, the will not being limited to personal or family concerns,

heart's true desire.

that it is possible to guarantee the tranquillity of the world in the end.

This line represents the quality of being flexible but correct at a time when



■ tranquillity has already passed midway. Although one has no real true abil-

2 yang: Accepting the uncultivated, employing those who

ity or power to effect order, still if one relies on those with the same aspira-

can cross rivers, not overlooking the remote, free from

tion, it is thereby possible to prevent disastrous confusion. So among people

partisanship, one can seriously perform balanced action.

of the same aspiration there is mutual trust, without any formal pact; there-

fore it is still possible to preserve this tranquility.

THE IMAGE: Accepting the uncultivated and seriously

performing balanced action are due to greatness of



illumination. ■ 5 yin: The emperor marries off his younger sister, whereby

there is good fortune, very auspicious.

Here strength is balanced and in harmony with the fifth yin of this hexa-

gram. This represents when someone who is wise is also in charge of carry-

THE IMAGE: That by which there is very auspicious good

ing out tasks relating to the organization and operation of government and

fortune is the balanced carrying out of deliberate, purposeful

society, and does so in the best possible manner, with the most appropriate

undertakings.

ti ming.

So here it is good to be tolerant, and accept the uncultivated and un- Flexible but balanced people in high positions who are open to the advice of

skilled, and see after their welfare. As for those of talent, who can, so to the wise and do not consider leadership a personal monopoly are symbol-

speak, "cross rivers," employ them. Do not overlook those who are far away. ized by the emperor marrying off his younger sister to a minister. If the ruler

Do not just be a partisan of other strong people, but cooperate seriously is able to recognize good advice and is open to it, then it is easy for the wise

with those on a higher level who are flexible yet balanced and sane, so that to work for such a ruler so as to maintain tranquillity permanently.

enlightenment will become widespread.



■ Top yin: The castle walls crumble into the moats. Do not use the

■ 3 yang: There is no level without incline, no going without army. Announcing order in one's own locality is shameful, in

returning. Be upright in difficulty, and you will be blameless.

spite of correctness.

Do not grieve over your sincerity; there will be prosperity in

sustenance. THE IMAGE: The castle walls crumbling into the moats means

that order is in disarray.

THE IMAGE: There is no going without returning—this refers to

the border of heaven and earth. When tranquillity culminates, there must be obstruction; the forces of time

assure us of this. Passive flexibility has no ability to get rid of confusion,

No individual or society has ever had enduring tranquillity and not gone

hence the caution not to use the army.

had. The point is simply to be aware of what that which is maintaining it is

Those who have lost their authority above will make much of their orders

like. The third yang represents strength being correct, enabling one to be

to those below them, so there are those who give orders in their own

upright in difficulty and have prosperity, pulling back this border of heaven

localities. This is not the place to give orders, yet they are arbitrarily giving

and earth. out orders—this is shameful.

However, the state represented by this top line is simply one of inability;

since yin rests on yang, it is still correct, so it is not entirely without merit. It

64 THE BUDDHIST