18. Degeneration 89

88 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



world is ordered. It is beneficial to cross a great river; going ■ 2 yang: Dealing with the degeneration of the mother,

forth, there is something to do. Three days before, three days it will not do to be righteous.

after—the end thus has a beginning, the activity of heaven.

THE IMAGE: Dealing with the degeneration of the mother is

The trigram mountain, which is strong and represents stopping, is above; it attaining balance.

stops above and has no light to help those below. The hexagram wind, which

The yin nature is comfortable when there is nothing to do, and dislikes

is weak and represents pliancy, is below; it rests below and has no virtue to

doing anything, so dealing with the degeneration of the mother is most diffi-

go higher. This represents those above and below taking it easy, just enjoying

cult. If you correct her, you injure love, but if you do not correct her you

the leisure of the moment, unaware of the gradual fermentation of troubles

injure justice. It can only be done by someone who is actually strong but is

ahead.

not adamant.

Only if people know the gradual process of accumulating degeneration

can they set up means of rescue, so that the world can be set in order; how

can they sit there and do nothing, as though the world will order itself? It is ■ 3 yang: Dealing with the degeneration of the father,

necessary to go do something, like "crossing a river," as it were. And it there is a little regret, but no great blame.

is necessary to understand how the activity of heaven has an end and a

beginning. Dealing with the degeneration of the father, THE IMAGE:

This applies to political affairs, to Buddhism, to education, and to con- in the end there is no blame.

templating mind.

The quality represented by the third yang is no different from that of the

second yang, but here one does not know how to use it. The second yang

THE IMAGE: Wind in the mountains—degeneration. uses it flexibly, the third uses it adamantly; therefore there is a little regret

Leaders thus arouse the people to nurture virtue. but no great blame.



Arousing the people is like wind, nurturing virtue is like mountains. The

people cannot be sufficiently aroused without nurturing virtue, and virtue ■ 4 yin: Indulging the degeneration of the father,

cannot be sufficiently nurtured without arousing the people. This means the if you go on you will experience shame.

twin action of compassion and wisdom, seeking to rise higher while educat-

THE IMAGE: Indulging the degeneration of the father,

ing those who are lower.

if you go on you will not attain anything.



■ This represents weakness and lack of virtue, whereby one can increase the First yin: Dealing with the degeneration of the father,

if there is a child, the late father has no blame. degeneration of the father by indulging it.

It is dangerous but turns out well.



THE IMAGE: ■ 5 yin: Dealing with the degeneration of the father, Dealing with the degeneration of the father means

the action is praised.

consciously taking up after the late father.



THE IMAGE: Dealing with the father, the action is praised,

Degeneration does not take place all at once; it becomes apparent only with

the passage of generations. Therefore it is expressed in terms of father and because one takes up after him with virtue.

child. The first yin is in the beginning of degeneration, when deterioration is

Here flexibility is in balance and one can deal with degeneration well. This is

not yet serious; if there is a wise child, the dead father can escape blame. But

taking up after one's predecessors with reviving virtues.

it is necessary to be wary of danger, so that things may turn out well. And

the way to deal with degeneration requires that one consciously take up

after the father, and not take up after the father's deeds. ■ Top yang: Not serving kings or lords, one makes one's concerns

loftier.



90