46. Rising

a little, though the fourth agrees to accept this.

wind below, earth above



■ no blame. Rising is very successful. It calls for seeing a great person, 4 yang: If there is great good fortune, then there is so there will be no grief. An expedition south brings good

THE I MAGE: There is no blame only if there is great good fortune.

fortune, because one is out of place.

When energy amasses, it rises upward, like a tree growing upward from the

When it is time to gather, the first yin responds to this one, the third yin earth; great success is sure. But since docile receptivity, as symbolized by the

pledges allegiance to this one; is this not close to regarding an administrator wind and earth trigrams, is not of itself fruitful in action, there is the exhor-

as a ruler? This is why one in this position can only be blameless if there is tation to "see a great person, so there will be no grief." The south is associ-

great good fortune. This is like the case of ancient wise men who never be- ated with fire, symbol of illumination; an expedition south brings good for-

came leaders but spent their whole lives fulfilling the duties of administrators. tune insofar as people turn toward illumination to carry out their aim.



■ 5 yang: Gathering around the position, there is no blame. THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Flexibility rises in accord with the If those who are not loyal remain ever-faithful to their original ti me. When there is docile receptivity, strength in balance

commitment, regret vanishes.

responds; hence there is great success. It is useful to see a

great person, so there will be no grief, but rather celebration.

THE IMAGE: When there is gathering around the position, one's

aspiration is not yet glorious. An expedition south brings good fortune, in the sense that the

aim is carried out.

Here positive strength is balanced and correct; this is one in the position of

By flexibility one rises in accord with the time. This rising depends on recep-

the leader, around whom others gather. But it is only the second yin that

tivity, and is an achievement of receptivity. When strength in balance re-

really responds and the top yin that really cleaves to one here. The first and

sponds to docile receptivity, that is the aim of docility and receptivity.

third have already gathered around the fourth yang, so one can achieve no

more than being without blame. If one can forget one's position and delegate

responsibility to the fourth yang, allowing those two yins not to be loyal to THE IMAGE: Trees grow in the earth—rising. By following

oneself, and if those who originally gathered around the fourth are always virtue, developed people accumulate the small into lofty

greatness.

faithful, then since the fourth yang is one's own minister, those two yins are

one's own subjects; therefore regret vanishes. Then again, if one just relies The body of the Tao is fundamentally not great or small, but when devel-

on one's position and expects others to gather around, one's aspiration is not oped people accumulate virtue, they do so by following the Tao receptively,

yet glorious. always proceeding from smallness to greatness, just as a huge tree starts out

as a small sprout. The thing to remember is that one should neither damage

the sprout nor try to force it to grow.

r Top yin: Sighing and weeping, there is no blame.