I CHING 14. Great Possession 75



THE IMAGE: The action of the baron gets through to the ruler. obedience of balanced flexibility; the mutuality of trust is the trust of bal-

Small people would be harmed. anced flexibility; being the resort of all positive forces is balanced, flexible

respect for the wise. The top yang represents acting on this.

It is possible to get through to a ruler by being firm, strong, upright, correct,

Those who can act on this themselves can obey and trust, and can there-

and in an important position. How can small people do this?

fore respect the wise; so where does the help of heaven and humanity end

up? This is why it is said that the sage has no success, the spiritual human

■ 4 yang: Negating self-inflation, there is no blame. has no name.



THE IMAGE: Negating self-inflation, there is no blame,

because the understanding is clear. The lines may be interpreted in Buddhist terms in two senses: one accord-

ing to educational outreach after realization and the other according to pro-

The fourth yang is firm and strong, but not excessively so. It is also in the gressive practice of educational method.

body of fire, which represents understanding being clear and negating self- First, in terms of educational outreach after realization, the first yang rep-

inflation, so that one can work for enlightened leadership. resents appearing in states conditioned by emotional confusion, without

being affected by the anxieties of these states, just commiserating with



■ people out of compassion. 5 yin: This trust is mutual. It is fortunate to be awesome.

The second yang represents appearing among civilized people, among

THE IMAGE: whom it is possible to effect widespread liberation of all kinds of people by This trust is mutual; aspirations are aroused

through faith. The good fortune of being awesome is ease and means of methods of collective enlightenment. Therefore "there is a place to

freedom from preparation. go," and this "will not fail."

The third yang represents working on the celestial plane without being

Flexibility in balance in the honored (fifth) position single-mindedly trusts affected by celestial bliss or by meditation trances. Therefore "small people

the balanced strength represented by the second yang; the world trust this, are incapable of this." If small people entered celestial states, they would be

so the people are awed without anger, and it is not necessary to make any harmed by bliss or trance.

special effort to awe them. The fourth yang represents manifesting forms of methods for individual

One commentator explains that freedom from preparation indicates more liberation, therefore "negating self-inflation," yet not taking experience of

than sufficiency, because preparation arises from insufficiency, and thus is a total extinction for personal liberation, so having "understanding that is

manifestation of insufficiency, which causes awesomeness to be diminished. clear."

The fifth yin represents appearing as an enlightening being. Enlightening



■ Top yang: beings initiate those who are ready to be initiated; therefore "this trust is

Good fortune that is a blessing from heaven is

mutual." They break down those who need breaking down, so "it bodes

beneficial to all.

well to be awesome." In the sense that they guide people with basic good-

THE IMAGE: ness, "aspirations are aroused through faith." The way they break down The noble good fortune of great possession is

a blessing from heaven. people in bad states is "easy, free from preparations."

The top yang represents manifestation as a realized buddha, wherefor

This tells how good fortune from heaven is beneficial to all, most abun- "the good fortune of blessings from heaven is beneficial for all." This is what

dantly, but it does not tell how to bring good fortune. Could there be no way is known as appearing as a guide based on the ultimate truth.

to explain it? It must be because the way to bring good fortune is remote. In terms of progressive practice of educational method, the first yang rep-

Confucius said that what heaven helps is obedience, and what people help resents taking up the study of discipline, whereby one does not associate

is trust. Acting on trust and conscientiously obeying the order of nature is with aberrated mental states.

also the reason for respecting the wise. Therefore the good fortune that is a The second yang represents taking up the study of concentration, whereby

blessing from heaven is beneficial to all. one includes all truths in meditation without fail.

Trust, obedience, and respect for the wise—these are the qualities repre- The third yang represents taking up the study of knowledge, whereby one

sented by the fifth yin here. What is easy and needs no preparation is the can get through to the ruler. This knowledge cuts through emotional under- 76 THE BUDDHIST