59. Dispersal 219

218 THE BUDDHIST I CHING

ponding partner below—it completely disperses its group to unite with the

serve their ancestors. Their utter sincerity and devotion were able to move

total community, so that the whole world is one family and all beings are one

the world, and the waves of their gratitude reached everywhere. This is why

body. So even though there is dispersal, in reality there is assembly. Sages have

Confucius said that one who understood the right way to honor heaven and

no self, but there is nothing that is not their self. This is the path of illumination

earth, and the meaning of the ceremony in honor of the ancestors, could

and true greatness, inconceivable to ordinary thought.

rule a country with the greatest of ease.



■ ■ 5 yang: Scattering sweat; the great call scatters. First yin: For rescue, it is fortunate that the horse is strong.

The king abides. There is no fault.

THE IMAGE: The fortune of the first yin is in following.

THE IMAGE: The king abides without fault; this is the right

The first line is at the bottom of water; sensing the wind of the fourth line, it position. uses it for rescue. Being rescued, it emerges from water up onto land. The

word for the name of the trigram water also means concavity; on a horse, a Giving out a great call to share joy with the people is like sweat coming from

slightly concave back is considered beautiful. Now the first yin follows the the center of the body and dripping over the four limbs. The point of this is

second yang, so "the horse is strong," which is fortunate. that the fourth yin disperses its group because the fifth yang is the king and

abides in the right position; the fourth then can assimilate and therefore

gives a great call like sweat scattering outward. The king abiding in the right

■ 2 yang: Running to support on dispersal, regret vanishes. position is always in the center, so there is no fault.



THE IMAGE: Running to support on dispersal is attaining what



is wished. ■ Top yang: Scattering the blood, going far away, there is no fault.



This is precisely what the judgment calls strength coming without getting

THE IMAGE: Scattering the blood means avoiding harm.

exhausted. At the time of dispersal, one comes running to reliable support,

resting unaffected in midstream, and attains the wish to please oneself and Blood here is an image of water. People have great afflictions because they

please others, so regret vanishes. have bodies, which they are always emotionally attached to and guard as

their selves. But if we examine the body sanely, we see that it is a mass of



■ lymph and blood, a source of harm. 3 yin: Dispersing the self, there is no regret.

The top yang uses the wind of the fourth yin to disperse the self of the

THE IMAGE: Dispersing the self, the aim is outside. third yin; the third yin can be called forgetting oneself for the sake of the

country—therefore the aim is outside, and there is no regret. However, if

Here yin is on top of the body of water; the wind of the fourth yin in concert not for the top yang putting harm at a distance, how could the third yin

with the top yang "disperses" it in the sense that its whole being is scattered bring about any benefit?

into waves to bring nourishing moisture to living beings. The aim is outside,

not in oneself, so there is no regret.

To give a combined explanation of the six lines, the second yang is like a

wise and good overseer who receives the current of civilizing influence and

■ 4 yin: Dispersing the group is very auspicious. On dispersal, spreads it. The fourth yin is like an illustrious high official who is completely

there is assembly, inconceivable to the ordinary. fair and impartial. The fifth yang is like a sage king who pacifies the age,

sharing happiness with the populace. The top yang is like a minister of edu-

THE IMAGE: Dispersing the group is very auspicious—the

cation who educates the people and removes what is harmful. The first yin

illumination is great. thereby gets out of danger and, having gotten rid of suffering, will surely

This is what the judgment calls flexibility finding its place outside and as- experience happiness, and so is fortunate. The third yin thereby forgets per-

sonal selfishness and, having avoided harm, will surely promote benefit, so

si milating above. Flexibility in the proper place is the main element of obe-

has no regret.

dience; the fourth yin assimilates to the fifth yang above and has no corres -

220 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 6