I CHING 31. Sensing 131



the time and situation; if sensing disturbs inner autonomy, then one loses THE IMAGE: Correctness brings good fortune, and regret

the basis for responsiveness. disappears; one has not yet sensed danger. Coming and going

In this hexagram, the bottom three lines are in the body of stopping, rep- ceaselessly, one is not yet great.

resented by mountain, and are in a low position, so it is not appropriate that

Strong but not excessive, concentration and wisdom in balance, one attains

they should respond arbitrarily to others. The top three lines are in the body

the right way of sensitive response; so one is fortunate and regret disappears.

of joy, represented by lake, and are in a high position, so they all may re-

Seeing the mutual embrace and inclusion of one's own mind and others'

spond well to others.

minds, there is the image of coming and going ceaselessly.

Now, this first yin is recessive and in the lowest position, but it is moved by

Since the mind is made the basis of sensitive response, mettlesome people

the sense of the fourth yang, with which it corresponds; so it unavoidably

will all honor you and draw near to you, as in the image of companions

becomes active—this is represented by the toes moving first.

following your thoughts.

There are no fixed times for action and inaction. When it is time to stop,

Because one has attained the correct way of sensitive response, one may

then stop, and when it is time to go, then go. If action is appropriate, then it

sense all day without deviating from tranquil imperturbability; therefore

leads to good results, and if action is inappropriate, then it leads to bad re-

one has not yet sensed danger.

sults. Therefore it cannot be judged as right or wrong a priori. So when it is

Because one is aware of the comings and goings of the mind, though one

said that the aspiration is outside, this too has its own differences. If the aspi-

knows basically what one is thinking, it is still necessary to enter into the

ration is on the whole world, without selfish concern for one's person or

spirit thoroughly to bring out its function. Efficient functioning calms the

family, then it bodes well; if the aspiration is toward fame and fortune, with-

person and allows one to pursue virtue. By thoroughly examining the spirit

out concern for the essence of mind, then it is shameful.

and knowing its transformations, one can go deeply into the realm of the

unknown. Therefore one is not willing to hastily regard one's present real-

■ 2 yin: Sensing in the calf bodes ill. To stay put bodes well. ization as great.



THE IMAGE: To stay put in spite of foreboding leads to good

results, because obedience does no harm. ■ 5 yang: Sensing in the flesh of the back, there is no regret.



Here flexibility is balanced correctly, and is moved by the sense of the fifth THE IMAGE: Sensing in the flesh of the back, the aim is

yang. If you try to advance in haste arbitrarily, this bodes ill, but if you stay concluded. put and keep to yourself, this bodes well. This is because staying put and

keeping to oneself is obeying the path of flexible balance and does no harm. Here positive strength is balanced correctly and is in the body of joy. This is

like the image of "stopping at the back, not finding the body, walking in the



■ garden, not seeing the person." This is full accord with the subtlety of being

3 yang: Sensing in the thighs, when clinging to following,

"tranquil and imperturbable yet sensitive and effective." Therefore one has

to go on brings shame.

no faults to regret and carries a good beginning to a good end, realizing the

THE IMAGE: Sensing in the thighs is also not staying put; ultimate. This is called the conclusion of one's aim.

the aim is in following others; what is clung to is low.



At the end of calmness, with a strong sense of rectitude, moved by the top ■ Top yin: Sensing in the jaws and tongue.

yin, one hastily tries to liberate others without realizing that to liberate

THE IMAGE: Sensing in the jaws and tongue is speaking a lot.

others requires that self-liberation be accomplished first. Once bound by

pleasant circumstances, one immediately loses what one has cultivated hith- Here flexibility is correctly oriented; this is the key to joy. Inwardly based on

erto, and this is shameful. calmness, one outwardly exercises intelligent eloquence; this is the image of

sensing in the jaws and tongue. Expounding the truth inexhaustibly, teach-

■ 4 yang: ing people tirelessly, it is therefore called "speaking a lot." Correctness brings good fortune, and regret disappears.

Coming and going ceaselessly, companions follow your The reason that the first "sensing in the big toe" and the top "sensing in

thoughts. the jaws and tongue" do not say whether they are good or bad is that for

132