32. Constancy 133 TH6' BUDDHIST I CHING



beginners, in the first steps, there are both wrong and right, about which it Observe what they are constant in, and the conditions of

is impossible to generalize, and in teaching people there are also wrong and heaven, earth, and all beings can be seen.

right, which are not on the same track. This is a question to be pondered in

Why is constancy called enduring? Because the path can endure forever.

connection with the admonitions in the sayings about "getting through" and

The body of thunder is basically earth, but firmness comes up to direct it; the

"beneficial if correct." body of wind is basically heaven, but flexibility goes down to direct it: this is

the constant path of mutual balance of firmness and flexibility. Thunder

moves, wind drums; this is the constant path of creation of beings, growth

and development. Inwardly harmonious, outwardly active; this is the con-

32. stant path of human affairs and physical principles. Firmness and flexibility Constancy

corresponding is the constant path of structural complementarily.

wind below, thunder above Enduring on the path is called being correct; thus one can come through

Constancy comes through without fault, beneficial insofar without fault. So also is the path of heaven and earth. Since a beginning

as it is correct. It is beneficial to have a place to go. necessitates an end, an end must also necessitate a beginning. Beginning

and ending alternate, so they are impermanent, but since beginning and

The mechanism of sense and response does not allow any discrepancy, while ending continue, they are not final. Neither final nor permanent, the facts of

the principle of sense and response is eternally unchanging. Sense and re- eternity and impermanence are both established: so heaven and earth have

sponse are based on the principle which is always thus, so lake and mountain becoming, subsistence, decay and emptiness; sun and moon rise and set by

can be called sensing. The constant principle is explained based on the day and night; the four seasons supersede one another; the path of sages has

subtlety of meeting potential, so thunder and wind can be called constancy. substance and function of beginning and ending. In all of these, the facts of

Lake and mountain are called sensing, so the eternal is identical to imper- eternity and impermanence reside together, but the essence is neither eter-

nal nor impermanent—the name of constancy is imposed on it.

manence; thunder and wind are called constancy, so i mpermanence is eter-



nal. Also, sensing is lake and mountain, so impermanence is fundamen- THE IMAGE: Thunder and wind are constant; so do developed

tally eternal; constancy is thunder and wind, so the eternal is fundamental

people stand without changing place.

i mpermanence.

Since the principle is eternal, eternity must come through and must

"Place" means that which is completely fixed yet completely fluid, com-

be without fault. But eternity does not mean the permanence of fixation; '

pletely fluid yet completely fixed. Look from the east and it is west; look

one must know that there is both substance and function. The substance is

from the south and it is north—is this not fluid? South is not north, east is

neither eternal nor impermanent; the function illumines both eternity and

not west—is this not fixed? To "stand without changing place" simply

i mpermanence. means to stand on the path which is completely fixed yet completely flex-

To understand the substance that is neither eternal nor impermanent is

ible, completely flexible yet completely fixed.

called the benefit in being correct. To activate the function that can be both

eternal and impermanent is called the benefit in having a place to go.

■ First yin: In deep constancy, fidelity brings misfortune;

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Constancy is enduring. Firmness is

there is no gain.

above, flexibility below. Thunder and wind pair up, moving

along harmoniously; the hard and the soft correspond THE IMAGE: The misfortune of deep constancy is from seeking

constantly. Constancy comes through without fault, beneficial depth to start with.

insofar as it is correct, in the sense of enduring on the path.

The path of heaven and earth is constant and enduring, never In sensing, there is a problem when one lacks the discipline to keep con-

ending. It is beneficial to have a place to go, in the sense that trolled calm; in constancy, there is a problem when one lacks the learning to

the end has a beginning. As long as there is the sky, sun and change adaptively. This first yin, being passive and in a low position, repre-

moon can shine forever; the four seasons change, yet can go on sents one who knows how to persist to the death but does not know how to

forever. Sages endure on the path, and the world develops. change adaptively; thus the deeper the seeking, the more the loss of the