I CHING 3. Difficulty 33



In Buddhist terms, when one is alienated from one's true nature of subtle of the center permeates all situations, so that basic and auxiliary ways of re-

awareness, luminous and ineffable, the characteristics of ignorant stirring of alizing truth are both fulfilled, and "they win many people."

thought are "thunder." The obscuring characteristics of the objects made

manifest through that stirring thought are "clouds." From these develops

the continuity of idea-action-entanglement circles; this is difficulty. ■ 2 yin: Stopped, mounted on a horse but standing still.

Yet those who correctly practice complete all-at-once stopping and ob- Not enmity, marriage. The girl is chaste and does not get

engaged. After ten years she is engaged.

serving must go to the road in order to return home; they should realize that

this very stirring of thought has the nature of awareness capable of realizing

In Buddhist terms, this is like the work of cultivation and realization through

its own nature, and the objects of thought have the nature of works and

a step-by-step course of meditation. Here yin is in the second position, the

qualities that can make this realization possible.

position of balance; this represents centered, correct methods of concentra-

In the context of the conditions and awareness that can foster enlighten-

tion. But if one cannot immediately transcend, it is necessary to refine the

ment, to explain how to stop the mind from wandering, see reality directly,

mind by going through observations of different levels of reality, and practice

and discern the qualities of all states of mind, is called "organizing." This is

all necessary meditations before one can see the essence of enlightenment.

the foremost observation, of the realm of inconceivability.

Therefore "after ten years she is engaged."



■ THE IMAGE: The difficulty of the second yin is riding on the First yang: Staying around, it is beneficial to remain correct.

obdurate. Getting engaged after ten years means return to

It is beneficial to set up lords.

normal.

When people have leadership qualities but do not have leadership positions,

In Buddhist terms, "riding on the obdurate" refers to the many levels of psy-

they "stay around" and will benefit from remaining correct. Since their

chological problems that inhibit us from enlightenment. Without step-by-

inner qualities are fully developed and can guide the masses, it is "beneficial

step practice of meditation in depth, it is impossible to return to the nor-

to set up lords" to solve difficulties.

malcy of the true nature of things.

In Buddhist terms, to "stay around" means to be immediately aware of

any mental movement and not roll along, following thoughts. This is what is



called "coming back before going far." Chasing deer without preparation only goes into the ■ 3 yin:

This is one who is good at cultivation and experiential realization; because bush. Leaders see that it is better to give up, for to go would

accurate insight, true knowing, is in command, this is like the method of

bring regret.

i mmediate enlightenment.

In Buddhist terms, if you want to practice meditation concentration, you

THE IMAGE: Though they stay around, the action of their wills need knowledge and insight. If you have no accurate knowledge yourself

is correct. Because they value the lowly, they win many people. and do not have enlightened teachers or associates, and practice blindly,

then you will fall into a pit.

Staying around and not going forward seems like there is no will to save the

Leaders know how to see what is subtle, and would in such a case prefer

world. But this world cannot be saved by force; so remaining correct is the

to give up sitting meditation to go look for teachers who really know; if they

way for action to be correct. Difficulty in society derives from communica-

just went on blindly, set in their ways, they would be ignorant and would

tion gaps between high and low; if leaders can value the lowly, they will

bring on themselves the regret of a fall.

become "lords" even without wishing to, and will win the hearts of many

people and inevitably become established. THE IMAGE: Chasing deer without preparation is following the

In Buddhist terms, not following the flow of ups and downs is following beasts. Leaders abandon this, for to go would bring regret and

the flow of the true nature of things, and doing what is correct. But even lead nowhere. though one has all at once realized the importance of the true nature of

things, yet one is able to refrain from abandoning the lowly work of actual In Buddhist terms, greed for experience of meditation is called "following

achievements. This is what is meant by the saying that subtle contemplation the beasts." This is due to basic lack of sincere will for enlightenment.

34 THE BUDDHIST