I CHING 49. Change 187



The first priority of learners is to change their character. This is like fire ■ First yang: Use yellow ox hide for wrapping.

refining gold: during the process of refinement, the gold finds it painful;

only after the refinement is done and the gold is made into a vessel does it THE IMAGE: Using yellow ox hide means that it will not do to

believe in the merit of the fire. use contrivance.

This path of change is the path of creativity and receptivity; it is very suc-

cessful for those who do it correctly. Before believing in it, there is regret; Fire is that which changes; Lake is that which is changed. The first yang is on

once it proves trustworthy, regret vanishes. the bottom and has no corresponding partner above; this represents one

who should not use contrivance. Just use the hide of a yellow ox to wrap

yourself, in the sense of making yourself firm and secure.

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In change, water and fire cancel



each other. Two women live together, but their aims are not ■ 2 yin: On the day of completion, the change has taken place. complementary; this is called change. The day it is finished,

then it is believed in. When change is believed in, rejoiced in An expedition leads to good fortune, without blame.

because it is civilized, very successful because it is correct, as

THE IMAGE: Change having taken place on the day of

the change is appropriate, regret vanishes. As heaven and

completion, there is felicity in going.

earth change, the four seasons take place. When ancient

leaders changed the social order, they obeyed nature and Here flexibility is balanced and correct; this is the master of fire, which rep-

responded to humanity. The time of change is great indeed. resents illumination, one who attains the complete ability to change things.

Change will be believed in on the day of completion, and above there is a

"When change is believed in" means that before change, people do not be-

correspondence with the fifth yang, which represents great people; so to go

lieve in it. When the change is appropriate, this makes people believe in it,

on will lead to a felicitous partnership.

and their regret vanishes; this makes it clear that if the change is not ap-

propriate, regret does not disappear. Change must come about the way na-

ture changes the seasons or the way ancient sages changed the social order ■ 3 yang: An expedition leads to misfortune, dangerous even if

for the better; only then can it win people's confidence. So change is not an correct. Change, then speak; on the third presentation, there

easy matter. will be trust.



THE IMAGE: Change, then speak. Make three presentations.

THE IMAGE: Fire in a lake—changing. Leaders make calendars

Where are you going?

to define the seasons.

Here one is too adamant and unbalanced; but one is in correspondence with

There is no actual reality in time; it is artificially defined by distinguishing

the top yin, which is flexible but upright, representing a leader that is like a

positions based on matter and mind. Mind is formless and is represented

spotted leopard and cannot be changed forcibly. So to "go on an expedition"

through the medium of matter. Matter has collective forms and individual

would surely lead to misfortune; even if one is right, it is still dangerous.

forms.

One can only change oneself so as to go along with the leader; when one

Collective forms of matter above us are the sun, moon, and constellations

has spoken up three times, one may win confidence.

of stars. As the sun, moon, and stars course through the sky, based on the

degrees of their passage we define the seasons of spring, summer, fall, and

winter. 4 ■ yang: Regret vanishes; there is trust. Changing one's fate,

In spring, it is spring for everyone; in winter, it is winter for everyone. So there is good fortune.

we know that time is just a manifestation of mind; it is nowhere, yet there is

THE IMAGE: The good fortune of changing one's fate is belief in

nowhere that it is not. This is like fire, which essentially has no self; it is even

the aim.

inherent in bodies of water; evidence of this is the way fiery light always rises

from the ocean.

The trigram lake is associated with metal, which must be refined before it

can be made into a vessel. But the fourth yang has no correspondent below,

188 THE BUDDHIST