I CHING 36. Damage of Illumination (Concealment of Illumination) 145



the exercise of complete all-at-once cessation of confusion and seeing of But since ignorance has been a ruling force for so long, it is impossible to

accomplish this overthrow hastily; it must be sustained by rectitude.

truth.



THE IMAGE: Illumination goes underground, in concealment of ■ 4 yin: Entering the left belly, finding the heart of illumination illumination. In dealing with the masses, true leaders act

in concealment and going out of the house.

unobtrusively while in fact being illumined.

THE IMAGE: Entering the left belly is finding the heart's intent.

This means using stillness to control movement, using darkness to peer into

the light. These are functions of concealment of illumination. What sages

This is flexibility that is correctly oriented. This is like one who recognizes

learn is to become daily more illumined unbeknownst to others. an illuminate in concealment and withdraws allegiance from the ignorant.



■ First yang: Illumination concealed in flight, letting the wings ■ 5 yin: The concealment of illumination on the part of a just

droop, superior people on a journey, not eating for three days, scion of an evil ruling house is beneficial and upright. have a place to go. The ruler has something to say.

THE IMAGE: The uprightness of a just scion of an evil ruling

THE IMAGE: When superior people are on a journey, house is that his understanding cannot be suppressed.

it is right that they do not eat.

This represents being outwardly flexible while inwardly strong, remaining

This is like just people fleeing a vicious tyrant: letting the wings droop

balanced in the middle, appearing to be ignorant while actually being il-

means not revealing the flying form; and such is the speed of travel that they lumined. That illumination shines throughout all ages. do not have the leisure to eat for three days. This is because it is right to flcP

far away; they do not wish the tyrannical ruler to know and speak against

them. ■ Top yin: In the darkness of ignorance, first ascending to heaven,

later going underground.



■ the left leg, THE IMAGE: 2 yin: Illumination concealed, injured in First ascending to heaven is lighting up the

going to the rescue, it is lucky if the horse is strong. nations; later going underground is losing guidance.



THE IMAGE: The luck of the second yin is in model obedience. This is the extreme of damage of illumination, like one who was once an

emperor and then later became an isolated individual. The first five lines all

This represents the virtues of cultured intelligence, balance, and up- represent being illumined but appearing to be ignorant, thus being able to

rightness. In this time when illumination is concealed, even though the use apparent ignorance in an enlightened way. This line represents the ig-

work of the left leg is injured, one still goes to the rescue; only because the norance of not understanding, whereby one loses guidance and so goes

horse is strong is there luck. This is like leading people to work for the good underground.

of the country, in spite of having been mistreated by ignorant people in au-

thority, obeying temporal authority and not overtly rebelling; this is truly a

ti meless model.



■ 3 yang: Illumination concealed, hunting in the south,

catching the big chief, hasty correction will not do.



THE IMAGE: The aim of hunting in the south is a big catch.



This is the end of the night, just before dawn. This is like when the en-

lightened who have been in concealment overthrow the reign of ignorance.

THE BUDDHIST