1. Sincerity in the Center 223



THE I MAGE: achieve the ultimate fluidity to go anywhere. Unless one is upright, one can- What is auspicious about contented regulation is

that the position one is in is balanced. not master ultimate constancy wherever one may be. If one does not cross

great rivers, one cannot refine the mind by experience and effectively func-

Here positive strength is balanced and correct, in the position of honor. This tion. If one is not beneficially upright, one cannot integrate phenomena

is one who manages the situation with discipline. There is neither excess nor through the design of reality and establish a basis. lack, so there is contentment and a good outlook. This is carried out without

anything wrong, so to go on will result in exaltation. Because one's position

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: With sincerity in the center,

is balanced, one cannot be obstructed by the missed timing of others.

flexibility is within and firmness is in the center. Joyful and

docile, sincerity then transforms the nation. The simple-

■ Top yin: Painful regulation bodes ill if persisted in. minded are fortunate in that sincerity affects the simple-

By repenting, it is eliminated. minded. It is beneficial to cross great rivers, riding on a

wooden boat that is empty. Sincerity in the center with

THE IMAGE: Painful regulation bodes ill if persisted in, because

beneficial uprightness responds naturally.

that path comes to an impasse.

If we look at the whole hexagram, the two flexible lines are inside: this

In terms of timing, this is weakness in a situation of extreme regulation,

stands for true obedience with an open mind, without the slightest bit of

holding fast and not adapting. That path therefore comes to an impasse.

belligerent selfishness.

Even if correct, it still bodes ill; one clings to it as correct, but really that is

If we look at the hexagram divided into upper and lower parts, two firm

not correct. Only if one repents and changes can one avoid coming to

lines are in the center: this stands for truthfulness and genuine sincerity, un-

an impasse. Since one does not cone to an impasse, the bad outlook can

adulterated by emotional desires.

be eliminated.

The joy symbolized by the lake trigram moves people harmoniously; the

docility symbolized by the wind trigram integrates with people harmo-

niously. Therefore the nation will be spontaneously transformed.

To say that sincerity affects the simple-minded is the same as saying that

sincerity is like being simple-minded. That is because when people are