4. Darkness 37 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



through, because successful action is that which is at the heart conscientious in self-correction and not go forth. If you rush into something,

of the time. you will regret it.



It is not that I seek the ignorant, the ignorant seek me—this THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to use punishments, by the correct

means a correspondence of aspirations. method.



The first pick informs—because that which is definite is

The correct method of breaking down ignorance is not emotional attack.

central balance.



The second and third muddle; that which is muddled does ■ 2 yang: It bodes well to embrace the ignorant. It bodes well to

not inform, because it muddles up the ignorant. The take a wife. The child becomes head of the family.

accomplishment of sages is to take the opportunity of

ignorance to educate correctly. In Buddhist terms, when concentration and insight are equally well devel-

oped, you have finished helping yourself, and therefore can embrace, pro-

The reason the ignorant can get through their ignorance is that there are tect, and educate the ignorant, with a good outlook. Through one's own

guides who can get them through the dark, through their skillful use of ac- development, to teach the ignorant to practice subtle concentration is called

tion and instruction at the heart of the time. "taking a wife," which "bodes well."

But even though there may be good teaching, it is necessary to wait for Concentration can give birth to insight, and insight can succeed to the lin-

the ignorant to seek it; because the teaching can respond to them only if eage of Buddhas; this is the child becoming head of the family. The wife is

they have come because they have sensed something. The symbol for this is concentration; the child is insight.

water being able to reflect the moon only when it is clear.

The meaning of "the first pick informs" is definite attainment of central THE IMAGE: The child becoming head of the family is firmness

balance, thereby being responsive to opportunity. and flexibility meeting and joining.

When it says, "that which is muddled does not inform," this does not

The reason that the text speaks of taking a wife and says that the child be-

mean fear of being muddled; it properly means fear of muddling the igno-

comes head of the family is that concentration must produce insight, and

rant, thus harming them.

insight must be equal to concentration, so that they are not imbalanced.

When people are ignorant, the work of the enlightened is to educate them

properly, so that they too may become enlightened.

■ 3 yin: Do not take a girl to see a moneyed man, or she will lose

herself, to no one's benefit.

THE IMAGE: Under a mountain emerges a spring, in darkness.

Leaders use effective action to nurture inner qualities. When people are mixed up they should seek firm guidance to break through

their ignorance, for only thus can their affliction be cured. If in this state

In Buddhist terms, this is awakening the true aspiration for enlightenment they wish only to be accepted and treated nicely, then they will be like a girl

based on the realm of inconceivability. This aspiration for enlightenment who meets a moneyed man and loses her chastity.

cannot be destroyed, just as a spring must flow; the commitment to univer- In Buddhist terms, if they are not correctly centered, concentration and

sal liberation and enlightenment covers all, just as a spring provides water for insight are both of a low quality. If they are put in a dominant position, they

plants, animals, and people.

will lose all possibility of rectification, and there will be no benefit.

Also, when people who are inclined to sport their cleverness are for the



■ moment in high positions, they have already become so mechanical that if

First yin: To awaken the ignorant, it is beneficial to use

they were to practice meditation now, acutely compulsive, deluded views

punishments; if restrictions are eased, it will be regrettable to

would surely arise in their meditation; and once acute compulsions arise,

go that way.

then the root of good is cut off. So the girl is meditation, and the moneyed

When ignorance is extreme, it is necessary to break it down, "so it is bene- man is the arrogant ego; meditation loses its true character when it is prac-

ficial to use punishments." And once restrictions are eased, it is proper to be ticed while under the influence of the arrogant ego, and it loses all benefit.