9. Small Obstruction (Nurturance of the Small) 57 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



THE IMAGE: Wind moving up in the sky, nurturing the small. ■ Top yang: It having rained and settled, exalted virtue is full.

Thus do leaders beautify cultured qualities. Even if the wife is chaste, she is in danger.

The moon is almost full.

Nothing has a more subtle influence on things than wind. Beautifying cul- It is unlucky for a leader to go on an expedition.

tured qualities is like when they say that if people at a distance do not take to

you, you cultivate cultured qualities to attract them, just as an ancient chief- THE IMAGE: It having rained and settled represents full

tain won over a hostile tribe by doing dances representative of war and development inner qualities. It is unlucky for a leader to go of

peace. on an expedition, as there is some doubt.

In terms of contemplating mind, using generosity, self-discipline, pa-

tience, diligence, meditation, and insight to correct perceptive flaws, aid in

To interpret this hexagram in terms of mental states in Buddhist contempla-

psychological development, and open the mind, is called beautifying cul-

tion, when we practice a true way, there may be powerful factual obstruc-

tured qualities.

tions that require specific remedies to help clear them away. But though we

use remedies to help clear away obstructions, still the guidance comes from

First yang: Returning by the path, how could that be perceptive insight into the right way.

blameworthy? It is auspicious. In the first yang, accurate knowledge is strong, so obstacles caused by

events cannot do any harm, and so one "returns by the path."

THE IMAGE: Returning by the path, it is right that there should In the second yang, concentration and insight are balanced, so one can

be good fortune. make obstacles into one's own assistants and not lose oneself.

In the third yang, one relies on unfertile intellect and so is stymied by



■ obstacles that arise in the course of events; concentration and insight are

2 yang: Leading back bodes well.

both damaged.

In the fourth yin, one skillfully uses correct concentration to awaken

THE IMAGE: Leading back into the center, and not losing

competent insight, so "blood goes and fear leaves."

oneself.

In the fifth yang, subtle insight into the true center of everything under-

stands that obstacles lead to the qualities to overcome them, so they can

■ 3 yang: The wheels are detached from the cart. Husband and "share the blessings with the neighbors."

wife look away from each other. In the top yang, concentration and insight are equal, so concrete obstacles

melt away and you are freed of them. This is like when it has rained and

THE IMAGE: When husband and wife look away from each settled—the cultivation of inner qualities has been successful.

other, they cannot cohabit. When concrete obstacles are set aside through corrective auxiliary mea-

sures, there will be an experience of utmost ease. This is called "the wife."



■ One should not savor this ease, because to savor it would give rise to pride,

4 yin: If there is truthfulness, blood goes and fear leaves,

and one would think oneself the same as a consummate sage. This is called

and there is no blame.

"the moon almost full." If you believe in this and proceed in this way, then

this will be a great falsehood, which bodes ill. How can we be careless?

THE IMAGE: Fear leaves when there is truthfulness, because

there is a consonance of will with on high.



■ 5 yang: There is truthfulness in companionship. Blessings are

shared with the neighbors.



THE IMAGE: There is truthfulness in companionship, in the

sense that one does not enjoy blessings alone.



58 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING