I CHING 15. Humility 79



This is the expression of humility to harmonize with the humility of those This is claiming sympathy with the humility of the workers and achievers

who work selflessly for others; it is correct insofar as it comes from one's represented by the third yang, but actually only putting on an appearance of

true nature.

humility and not really being humble. For this reason few will accept you,

so even if you have a country, there will be rebellion. But even though the



■ reality of humility is not there, the name of humility is there, so those who 3 yang: Leaders who work and achieve yet are humble have an

auspicious conclusion. rebel will not gain the advantage; the attacker will profit.



THE IMAGE: The people submit to leaders who work and The six lines may also he interpreted in Buddhist terms, in two senses: in

achieve yet are humble. terms of characteristics of buddhahood, and in terms of people involved in

Buddhism in some way.

Those who work and achieve yet are not overbearing, who are successful but

First, in terms of characteristics of buddhahood, the first yin represents

do not congratulate themselves, are those who have attained complete

manifestation of spiritual descent into the womb and subsequent birth on

humility.

earth. Because a buddha has already realized birthlessness long ago, yet still

manifests birth, this is called "managing oneself with lowliness."

■ 4 yin: Beneficial to all, the exercise of humility. The second yin represents manifestation of renunciation of social status.

Buddhas are already liberated from birth and death, yet they say they are

THE IMAGE: Beneficial to all, the exercise of humility— leaving behind their social status because of birth and death. This is "ex-

this is the way it is supposed to be. pressing humility."

The third yang represents manifestation of overcoming demons and at-

Being above those who are successful yet humble, as represented in the

taining enlightenment. Buddhas have already transcended the realm of de-

third yang, yet being correctly flexible and agreeable, is beneficial to all and

mons and realized great enlightenment, yet they manifest these accomplish-

is the exercise of humility. Exercising humility toward the humble is truly

ments for the benefit of other beings, to cause those who observe this to

the way it is supposed to be.

accept it in their hearts.

The fourth yin represents manifestation of reflection after enlightenment.

■ 5 yin: Not rich, employing the neighbors, it is beneficial in Buddhas already perceived potentials and set up teachings accordingly; this

invasion and attack; all will profit. is "the way it should be."

The fifth yin represents manifestation of activation of teachings. Origi-

THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to invade and attack in the sense of nally there is no real teaching; all teachings are beneficial techniques, provi-

overcoming the unruly. sionally demonstrated: so the buddhas are "not rich." All buddhas can in-

voke the testimony of all other buddhas, since reality is one, so this is

The fifth yin represents neither pride nor humility; it is in the center. There-

"employing the neighbors." Buddhas break through people's confusions to

fore the five aspects of humility represented by the other lines are all its ser-

enable them to return to inherent enlightened qualities and obey them, so

vants. But if you look for what makes it able to employ these five aspects of

"it is beneficial to invade and attack."

humility, there is nothing; so it is "not rich, employing the neighbors." Ulti-

The top yin represents manifestation of' extinction. Because people's po-

mately, invasion and attack do not destroy humility, so "it is beneficial in

tential is exhausted, the response to it dies out; this is "the aspiration not

invasion and attack." All work for it, so "all will profit." Overcoming the un-

attained." But buddhas actually do perform buddha-work by extinction, in

ruly is humility in the sense of taking away excess.

that they cause people who have not yet planted roots of goodness to plant

them, they cause people who have planted roots of goodness to mature

■ Top yin: Expressing humility, one profits from military them, and they cause mature people to be emancipated; this is "attacking

operations attacking the country. the country."

Now, in terms of people involved in Buddhism, the first yin represents

THE IMAGE: Expressing humility, the aspiration has not been novices, who "manage themselves with lowliness." The second yin repre-

attained; one can use military operations to attack the country. sents initiates who preserve the teaching; this is "expressing humility, good

80