I CHING 24. Return 109



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Return is successful. Strength comes myriad practices of the six transcendent ways, and just observed the mind of

back, moving with harmonious action, therefore exiting and the present moment, without "inspecting the regions" of the mental and

entering without ill; when a companion comes there is no physical elements.

fault. Returning back on the path, returning in seven days,



is the action of heaven. It is beneficial to have a place to go, ■ First yang: Returning not far, no regret. Very auspicious. because strength is growing. return is to see the heart of To

heaven and earth.

THE IMAGE: Returning that is not far is done by cultivating

To interpret this in terms of contemplating mind, the essence of enlighten- oneself.

ment is called the heart of heaven and earth; not even incorrigible criminals

In Buddhist terms, when true insight is perfectly clear, one sees the essence

can ever destroy it, but as long as it is covered by evil, we cannot see it our-

of enlightenment all at once and is immediately imbued with all practices;

selves. The ocean of suffering is boundless, but the shore is near at hand; a

therefore it is very auspicious. This is like the first station of the complete

moment of inspiration for enlightenment can move the boundless ocean of

teaching. Also, in terms of the six transcendent ways, this is the correct path

samsara.

of transcendent wisdom.

The reason why return is successful is that the quality of strength emerges

in harmony with essential nature, so that there is the power to turn back

from samsara. Once this inspiration for enlightenment becomes active, this ■ 2 yin: Good return is auspicious.

is working in harmony with it; if you proceed on this basis, then you can go

out and in without ill, and company can come without fault. THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about good return

But the reason why it is necessary to return back on the path, returning in comes through humble benevolence.

seven days, is that the work of embodying the strength of the action of

In Buddhist terms, when correct concentration is balanced, one is near to

heaven and strengthening oneself unceasingly should be like this.

reality, close to sagehood, as in the stages of faith in the complete teaching.

Fulfill this one thought of enlightenment, and then it is beneficial to have

Also, in terms of the six transcendent ways, this is correct concentration

a place to go, because even though strength is very faint, the momentum of

combining with insight.

its growth cannot be stopped. Therefore from this we can sec our inherent

enlightened essence.

Also, "exiting" means going from emptiness into the conditional; "enter- 3 yin: ■ Repeated return is diligence. There is no fault.

ing" means going from the conditional into emptiness. Once we harmonize

with the essence of reality at the center of all things, we dwell neither in THE IMAGE: The diligence of repeated return

samsara nor in nirvana, but can roam freely in samsara and nirvana, so is faultless if right.

there is no ill. The "companion" means the nature and characteristics of all

In Buddhist terms, this is having concentration and insight, but not being

possible realms of experience, which when opened up become the nature

balanced correctly; therefore one must first contemplate emptiness, then

and characteristics of the realm of enlightenment; therefore there is no fault.

the conditional, then the center—this is called repeated return. By dili-

gent work in practice and experience one can get to be without fault.

THE IMAGE: Thunder in the earth—return. On the winter Also, in terms of the six transcendent ways, this is the continual urging of

solstice, the ancient kings shut the gates; the caravans did not perseverance.

travel; the ruler did not inspect the regions.



In terms of contemplating mind, even though there is momentum in the ■ 4 yin: Traveling in the center, returning alone.



growth of strength and it is beneficial to have a place to go, nevertheless it is

THE IMAGE: Traveling in the center, returning alone,

necessary to nurture potential with serenity. So the buddhahood in con-

is done by following the path.

templative practices, the "ancient kings," have awakened to the "winter sol-

stice" of the latent essence, "shut the gates" of the senses, shed attachments, In Buddhist terms, this represents correct concentration, corresponding to

and mastered themselves inwardly, temporarily halting the "caravans" of true insight. This is like people of sharp faculties in the general teaching

110