I CHING 8. Accord 53



In terms of contemplating mind, the first yin is like the teaching of indi- Also, the teaching of infinite means of liberation for infinite types of

vidual liberation, the second yin is like the teaching of universal emptiness, people and problems involves dogged liberation of those outside one's own

the third yin is like a sentimental teaching, the fourth yin is like the teaching realm. It is appropriate to deal with this by accurate observation of complete

of infinite ways of liberation for infinite types of people and problems, the integration.

fifth yang is like real true complete teaching, and the top yin is like false

teaching of emptiness that disregards causality. THE IMAGE: Accord with the wise outside is the way to follow

This line represents the teaching of individual liberation, which focuses the advanced.

on accurate perception of causal relations. When you open this up, it is none

When there are people of wisdom in positions of leadership, for those below

other than ineffable truth, so "there is other good fortune."

them to accord with them outside is simply the way things should be in the-

ory and in fact.

THE IMAGE: The first yin of accord has other good fortune.



■ 5 yang: Manifest accord. The sovereign uses three chasers.

■ 2 yin: Accord coming from within is auspicious if correct. He loses the game before him. The local people are not warned.

In Buddhist terms, this can be interpreted to mean that people in the heav- Auspicious.

ens of desire have virtues, and they also have intelligence, but they need to

To interpret this in Buddhist terms, when a spiritual sovereign appears in the

cultivate profound concentration.

world, like the sun in the sky, this is called "manifest accord."

Also, this is the skillful manner of liberation according to the teaching of

The "civilization" is effected by three means—mind-reading, appropriate

universal emptiness as applied to that which is within one's own realm. It is

instruction, and demonstration. Also, elementary, intermediate, and ad-

the same as the totality of phenomena being identical to noumenon, as elu-

vanced teachings lead people to liberation, and enable the seeds of develop-

cidated in the complete teaching; all that is needed is to reach the outside

ment to ripen, shed the husk of the worlds, and gain enhancement. These

from the inside.

may be called "the sovereign using three chasers."

In regard to people with no affinity, the enlightened skillfully employ con-

THE IMAGE: Accord coming from within means not losing

centrated equanimity. So even the disciples of Buddha did not forcibly con-

oneself.

vert people with no affinity. That is called "He loses the game before him.

The local people are not warned."

■ 3 yin: The wrong person to accord with. In terms of contemplating mind, when real insight opens out, it is like the

bright sun in a clear sky; this is called "manifest accord."

If one is not balanced correctly, and one is in a position of minor authority

When perception of the ultimate emptiness, conditional existence, and

but has no strong critical guidance, one is "the wrong person to accord

balance of all things is present in one mind, then one can absorb and under-

with." stand the preparatory three teachings, each of which dealt with one aspect

In Buddhist terms, this means the devil hasn't a thought of good, and also that

of this totality. This is called "the sovereign using three chasers."

emotional opinions certainly do not accord with the way to enlightenment.

Concentration on wakeful attention, in which one observes thoughts as

they arise and does not fear the arising of thoughts but fears delay in notic-

THE IMAGE: The wrong person to accord with; will there not be

ing them, enables one to return to correct mindfulness as soon as one no-

injury?

tices a thought, so that one does not keep the error of prior thoughts on

one's mind. This is called "He loses the game before him. The local people



■ are not warned." 4 yin: According with the wise outside, correctness brings

good results.

THE IMAGE: The good fortune of manifest accord is the correct

In Buddhist terms, this means that the realm of pure form has many medita- balance of state. Giving up the opposition and taking the

tion states in it. One should just awaken the aspiration for enlightenment harmonious is losing the game before one. The local people are

and cultivate all facets of knowledge of differentiation outside. not warned, because the ruler has effected balance.

54