54. Marrying a Young Girl



lake below, thunder above THE I MAGE: "Marrying a young girl, taking junior wives" is

because of constancy. The lame can walk to good fortune

Marrying a young girl. To go on an expedition leads to because of service.

misfortune, with nothing gained.

In this hexagram, the bottom trigram, lake, represents the young girls; the

In Buddhist terms, this means practicing gradual meditation. Here "mar- top trigram, thunder, is the husband. Among the three lines of lake, the third

riage" means that one takes concentration on worldly phenomena and yin is the young bride, and the first and second yangs arc the junior wives.

"weds" it to true insight into the way to enlightenment. If one just uses this Among the three lines of thunder, the fourth yang is the husband, the fifth

concentration on phenomena to set up a teaching method, one will surely yin is like the master of ceremonies, and the top yin is like the ancestral

fall into the web of sentimental views, which leads to misfortune. If one in- shrine where the ceremony is held.

dulges in this concentration obsessively, then one will be partial to a tempo- The yang, with the virtue of firmness and uprightness, follows the third

rary byway and will gain nothing. yin in marriage to the fourth yang and becomes his junior wife. The third

yin is as though lame, but can walk with the help of the first yang; therefore

"to go on leads to good fortune." In a junior wife, constancy is an important

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Marrying a young girl is an virtue, serving the bride; thus both are fortunate.

i mportant duty of heaven and earth. If heaven and earth do



not commune, beings do not flourish. Marrying a young girl is ■ 2 yang: The one-eyed can see. It is beneficial to be chaste as a a start toward an end for human society. If she acts out of

hermit.

attraction, the bride is an immature girl. She will be

unfortunate if she goes on, because it is not her place to do so. THE IMAGE: The benefit of the chastity of a hermit is not

Nothing is gained, because weakness prevails over strength. changing the norm.



Contemplating mind uses subtle concentration to unite with subtle insight,

The second yang, by virtue of strength in balance, also follows the third yin

but may also use gradual meditations to foster spiritual powers. If what the

as a junior wife. The third yin is as though one-eyed but can see with the

contemplating mind considers assistance on the way is in fact addictive med-

help of the second yang. If you do not have clarity of vision yourself, and

itation, then the "bride" is immature. If concentration leaves insight behind

have another see for you, who can do this without the chastity of a hermit?

and goes on alone, misfortune is sure to result. If concentration is practiced But this is also just a normal virtue for a junior wife. habitually for a long time and becomes an obsession, nothing is gained.



■ 3 yin: When the bride-to-be seeks, it will be the little sister

THE I MAGE: who is married instead. Thunder over a lake—marrying a young girl.

Developed people consider lasting results and know what is

wrong. THE IMAGE: The bride-to-be who seeks is not right.



When thunder peals, it reverberates over a lake, but the thunder soon dies This line is the focus of the trigram lake, which stands for delight and attrac-

out, while the lake remains the same. This is not the way of permanent mar- tion. For fear that the bride-to-be might be easily moved by attraction, here

riage, nor is it the way of equilibrium of concentration and insight. The way she is warned that she must await the directive of the fifth yin and not let

developed people handle things is that before they take the time to ask how people take her lightly, lest the little sister be preferred for marriage. She is

to start something, they first consider lasting results. If they think of lasting warned because she is out of place.

results, they know what is wrong with acting prematurely, like marrying an



immature girl. If you understand the meaning of this, you can apply it to ■ 4 yang: When it is the wrong time for a girl to marry,

government and to contemplating mind as well. she delays the marriage until the proper time.

204