60. Regulation

obstruction.

lake below, water above

Regulation has many meanings, depending on the context in which it is

Regulation is successful, but painful regulation is not to be applied.

held to. Here, if we are talking about regulation in the sense of timing, one is

strong and upright but is in a low place, and the second yang blocks one's

Water is dispersed by wind, regulated by a lake. When it is regulated, it does advance; so one adapts to the time and stops, "not leaving home."

not overflow and does not dry up, so it can always provide moisture; there-

fore regulation is successful. If dispersal is excessive, it results in exhaustion,

so it is taken up with regulation; but too much regulation results in suffer- ■ 2 yang: Not going outside bodes ill.



ing, so it is not to be held to permanently.

THE IMAGE: Not going outside bodes ill, in that one misses the

ti ming in the extreme.

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Regulation is successful. Firmness

In terms of timing, here one is in a position to act, and also has the qualities

and flexibility divide, and firmness gains balance. Painful

of strength and balance. The third yin has already opened the gate, but there

regulation is not to be held to, because that would lead to an

is no corresponding partner above. Consequently, holding fast to petty regu-

impasse. Work through danger joyfully, take charge of the

lation is a great loss.

situation with discipline, get through with balance and

rectitude. As heaven and earth are regulated, the four seasons

take place. When laws are established with regulation, they do ■ 3 yin: Without regulation there will be lament,

not damage property or injure people. but you cannot blame anyone.



When one attains balance, one does not suffer pain. When one suffers pain, THE IMAGE: Whose fault is the lament that comes from lack of

one comes to an impasse, and when one is at an impasse, one cannot deal regulation?

with ordinary life. If one does not suffer pain, one is joyful, and so can also

work through danger. Only by taking charge of the situation with discipline In terms of timing, this means first indulging in feelings and doing what you

is balance and rectitude achieved; only by balance and rectitude can one get please, without knowing how to regulate yourself; afterward troubles come

through and not come to an impasse. Nature has four seasons, kings have and you lament in vain. You bring fault upon yourself and cannot blame

laws; both of these are what is referred to as getting through by balance anyone else.

and rectitude.



■ 4 yin: Peaceful regulation is successful.

THE IMAGE: Water over a lake, regulated. Leaders establish

THE IMAGE: The success of peaceful regulation is in taking up

numbers and measures, and consider virtuous conduct.

the higher path.

In matters of dress, architecture, music and dance, hierarchies, salary scales,

In terms of timing, here flexibility gains correct orientation, being in the

and so on, there are appropriate numbers and measures, which are estab-

position of a high official and taking up the directives of the leader; there-

lished to regularize them, so that there may be neither excess nor lack, nei-

fore it is peaceful regulation. This is what is known as a prime minister

ther extravagance nor restriction. Customary social relations are conducted

of peace.

based on virtues, considered so as to regularize them, so there is neither ex-

cess nor lack, and they can be inherited and transmitted. This is like a lake

regulating water, according to the amount and depth. It is only essential to ■ 5 yang: Contented regulation is auspicious. To go on will result

make sure that the water does not spill over or dry up. in exaltation.

222 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 6