38. Opposition 151 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



essence, which is basically real, since essence is the same, appearances are ■ 2 yang: Meeting the ruler in an alley, there is no blame.

also fundamentally the same.

THE I MAGE: Meeting the ruler in an alley does not deviate

Only developed people know how to be the same yet different, so they do

from the right way.

not obscure sameness by difference. They know that differences are based on

sameness, so they know that different stages of spiritual development are

It is imperative to thoroughly understand the affairs of the mind in every

based on a fundamental identity of enlightenment, and do not shrink from

detail; this is like meeting the ruler in an alley. The meeting of ruler and min-

going through the stages. They know that there are differences in the stages

ister is the constant way of all time; how could it be said to be lost because it

in spite of fundamental sameness, so even though they realize this identity

is "in an alley"?

of mind and Buddha, they also understand the need for the stages and do

not become conceited.

They know the different stages are based on the same enlightenment, so ■ 3 yin: Having the vehicle dragged back, the ox halted, the

they merge with the real source; they know the sameness of enlightenment person is punished by heaven. There is no beginning, but

does not abridge the differences in the stages, so they carry on all necessary there is an end.

practices.

THE IMAGE: Having the vehicle dragged back means being

They know that differences are based on sameness, so there is no buddha-

out of place. Having an end without a beginning means

hood above to attain and no unenlightened people below to liberate. They

encountering firmness.

know there are differences in spite of sameness, so they perpetually adorn



pure lands and teach people to transform them. This represents having no balance or proper orientation and doubting one-

They know that differences are based on sameness, so neither samsara nor

self, therefore arbitrarily having one's "vehicle dragged back" and "ox

nirvana can be grasped. They know there are differences in spite of same-

halted," meaning that one does not dare to proceed to follow those who are

ness, so they sometimes roam at play in samsara and sometimes appear to

more highly developed. Yet one still thinks one is going to work for the

enter nirvana. benefit of others. Sure to be punished by those above, one cannot communi-

cate one's honest feelings, so there is no beginning.

■ First yang: But when opposition culminates, there must be reconciliation, so one's Regret vanishes. Having lost the horse, do not chase

it —it will come back by itself. Seeing evil people, there is no intentions will eventually become clear in the end. Luckily one encounters

the firmness of the highly developed and in the end can meet without hos-

blame.

tilities. Therefore there is an end.

THE IMAGE: Seeing evil people, one avoids blame.



This represents being firm and upright, without correspondents, in the be- ■ 4 yang: The solitude of opposition. Meeting good people,

ginning of opposition. Proceed trusting in this, and there will be no error associate sincerely, work hard, and there will be no blame.

and so regret vanishes.

THE IMAGE: Associate sincerely, and there will be no blame,

Even if you have "lost the horse," there is no need to chase it, for "it will

for the aim will be carried out.

come back by itself"—this is an exhortation not to let gain and loss disturb



your spirit. Opposition can only be resolved when there is communication. The fourth

Even if you meet evil people, there is no harm in seeing them, for you can

yang has no partner, so it is called the solitude of opposition. However, the

be blameless—this is an exhortation not to let good and bad divide your firm uprightness represented by the first yang is below, and this can resolve

mind. opposition. At this time, people of similar qualities trust one another and

Whenever thoughts of gain and loss become serious, or the idea of good their interaction refines one another. This is how to carry out the aim of

and bad is too defined, then what is the same will be differentiated, and resolving opposition, so that there is no blame. what is different cannot be made the same. Only when we follow firm and

upright celestial virtue do gain and loss disappear, good and bad merge.

Then even if we are in a time of oppositions, we can be free of regret. ■ 5 yin: Regret vanishes. With the ally in close cooperation, what

is wrong with proceeding?





i


152