I CHING 39. Trouble 155



great person; the others do not speak of it, because seeing a great person is All the lines but this one represent knowledge as the ability to stop. This

also a natter of proper timing. When it is time to stop, then stop, and when one does not becaue it represents what is called working for a leader with all

it is time to go, then go. Timely action when in trouble completely embodies one has in the public interest, forgetting about oneself. Therefore it may

timely action in the universal process of transformation expounded in the I seem adventurous, but in the end there is no bitterness.

Ching. All of the sixty-four hexagrams are like this, but I just bring it up here Not acting selfishly is based on having examined oneself. If one can com-

because it is commonly neglected. prehend trouble by daily self-examination, only then can one solve troubles

i mpersonally when the time comes.



THE IMAGE: Water on a mountain—trouble. Developed people

examine themselves to cultivate virtue. ■ 3 yang: Going means trouble; come back.



Mountains nurture springs, which should provide moisture but not flood; THE IMAGE: Going means trouble; come back, and those inside

here water flows over the top, so that people cannot get a foothold. This will rejoice at this.

means there is a cleft in the mountain; it is not a fault of the water.

Developed people know that all dangerous and difficult situations are The third yang is the master of the mountain trigram, which represents stop-

made and manifested by their own minds, so they do not dare to resent ping; it stands for one who is strong and upright, and can stop on seeing

heaven or bear a grudge against people; they just examine themselves to danger. Since one knows that to go would surely mean trouble, one comes

cultivate their virtues, just as people might fix a mountain by filling in a cleft back to examine oneself and cultivate virtue; then those represented by the

so that water will flow back into a valley and not run off to the side. inside two lines will both rejoice.



■ ■ 4 yin: Going means trouble; coming back brings company. First yin: Going means trouble; coming is praised.



THE IMAGE: THE IMAGE: Going means trouble, coming back brings Going means trouble; coming is praised.

It is best to wait. company; one's position is solidified.



In troublesome situations, knowledge is to see the danger and be able to Here we are now in the body of the water trigram, which symbolizes danger;

stop. Therefore the lines all warn about going and allow coming. Here, the trouble is extreme. However, if one can come back to examine oneself

"coming" means turning around to examine oneself and cultivate inner and cultivate virtue, then one can still bring along the three lines of the

qualities. mountain trigram and be able to stop. Yin is basically not solid, so bringing

The first yin represents seeing danger and immediately stopping, knowing back company to one's position solidifies it. This refers to the third yang,

the situation and not getting into difficulty. The achievement of self- which stands for mastery of stopping.

examination and cultivation of virtue is earliest, so it can win praise. It is not



shilly-shallying and shrinking back in fear. The reasonable thing to do is just ■ 5 yang: In great trouble, companions come. to cultivate one's inner qualities and await the right time.

THE IMAGE: In great trouble, companions come, because of

■ balance and moderation. 2 yin: King and minister recognize trouble as trouble,



not for personal reasons. In the middle of water is great trouble. Here firm strength is balanced and

correct, and the flexibility represented by the second yin cooperates, so it

THE IMAGE: King and minister recognize trouble as trouble,

gets a "companion" to come, and together they solve the trouble.

so in the end there is no bitterness.

However, it is not that a companion comes to help one here; it is actually

This represents flexibility balanced correctly, examining oneself without because of one's fulfillment of the way of balance, as a moderating guideline

shame, cooperating with a leader having positive strength balanced cor- for getting out of trouble, that those represented by the lines above and be-

rectly, as represented by the fifth yang. When in trouble, how can they not low take one as an example. This is like Shakyamuni Buddha appearing in a

recognize trouble as trouble and so work together? corrupt world, attaining supreme enlightenment, and explaining to all the

156