37. People in the Home THE IMAGE: Wind emerges from fire, members of a family.

Developed people are factual in speech, consistent in action.

fire below, wind above



For people in the home, it is beneficial for the women Fire is fanned by wind, but now "wind emerges from fire"—this is like the

to be chaste. way a family is transformed by virtue, and now virtue is spread from the

family.



If we want to heal the wounds of the nation, nothing compares to turning When there is factuality in speech, it is not untrue; when there is consis-

our attention to the home. And if we want to rectify family life, nothing tency in action, it is not mere display. Thereby it is possible to regulate the

compares to strictness about the chastity of the women. family and nation.

In Buddhist terms, when contemplation practice is disturbed by demons, So it is also in Buddhism: when behavior is pure, it is then possible to

one should just remember that it is only mind. Only mind is the "home" of absorb virtue and help people.

Buddhism. And it is necessary to sustain insight by concentration, to assist



knowledge by virtue, and to reveal essence by cultivation; this is called the ■ First yang: Guarding the home, regret vanishes. benefit of female chastity.

THE IMAGE: Guarding the home, the aim does not change.

For people in the home, the woman 's

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Beginning a home with firm rectitude, speaking factually and acting consis-

proper position inside, the man's proper position is outside. is tently to guard it, one can thus ensure that it will not break up. In terms of

For men and women to be in their proper positions is Buddhism, this refers to learning discipline. universally important. The people in the home have a strict

rulership, which is the father and mother. When a parent

behaves like a parent, a child like a child, an elder like an ■ 2 yin: Not concentrating on anything but household duties,

elder, a youth like a youth, a husband like a husband, and a it bodes well to be chaste.

wife like a wife, then the conduct of the household is correct.

THE IMAGE: What bodes well in the second yin is docile

Make the home correct, and the country will be stable.

obedience.

In Buddhist terms, when meditation concentration supports the mind, then

Here flexibility is balanced and correct, and is in charge of the inner situa-

inwardly one merges with the substance of reality; when knowledge under-

stands external objects, then outwardly one carries on transformative tion. Therefore one does not dare to be self-centered or willful in anything,

but only concentrate on household duties. In Buddhist terms, this refers to

functions.

learning concentration.

When cultivated concentration and insight are equally correct, they are

based on the nonduality of inherent tranquillity and awareness. In the

causal state they are called man and woman; in the resulting state they are ■ 3 yang: When people in the home are strict, conscientious

called father and mother. Once one has realized the qualities of fruition, all diligence leads to good results. When the women and children

possible realms of consciousness are subject to one's mastery; this is called a are frivolous, it will end in humiliation.

"strict rulership."

When essence and cultivation arc not mixed up, this is called a parent THE IMAGE: It is not a mistake for the people in the home to be

behaving like a parent and a child like a child. When the absolute truth and strict. When the women and children are frivolous, the order

conventional truth are simultaneously illumined, this is called an elder be- of the household is lost.

having like an elder and a youth like a youth. When virtue and wisdom sus-

Excessive firmness that is not balanced seems to make the mistake of being

tain each other, this is called a husband behaving like a husband and a wife

too strict and demanding, but from the point of view of the correct way of

like a wife.

148