25. No Error

truth.

thunder below, heaven above



■ 5 yin: Attentive return, without regret. Freedom from error is very successful, beneficial for the up-

right. Denial of what is correct is mistaken, so it will not be

THE IMAGE: beneficial to go anywhere. Attentive return without regret

is balanced reflection on oneself.

In politics, a government that restores well-being accords with the way of

In Buddhist terms, this is equilibration of concentration and insight, and heaven and is free from error. In Buddhism, a teaching that restores the true

temporary attainment of balance. However, this is quite far from positive way is the same as the orthodox teaching and is free from error. In con-

strength, so after cutting through confusion and witnessing reality, it is nec- templating mind, on returning to original essence, truth is found and confu-

essary to await the revelation of the complete teaching before entering into sion is ended, so one is free from error. All of these are very successful, and

the state of completeness, like those who follow the teaching for individual beneficial for the upright.

emancipation or the general teaching for collective emancipation. Also, in But whether in worldly affairs or transcendental affairs, helping oneself

terms of the six transcendent ways, this is discipline; though far from the and helping others, it is necessary to look deeply into oneself to be sure

beginning, one just reflects on one's thoughts, words, and deeds, to make one's mind is free from aberration and one's words and deeds are not mis-

them faultless, thus naturally conforming to truth and becoming free from taken. If inwardly one denies what is correct, outwardly one will make

regret. mistakes; then one should certainly not go anywhere or do anything in

this way.



■ Top yin: Straying return is unfortunate; there is trouble. — THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: No errorstrength comes from outside Use this for a military expedition, and eventually there will be

and becomes the master of the inside. Active and healthy,

a great defeat, unfortunate even for the leader of the nation.

strength is balanced and responsive. Great success in what is

Even in ten years there is no victory.

right is the celestial command. Denial of what is correct is

THE IMAGE: mistaken, so it will not be beneficial to go anywhere. Where The misfortune of straying return is turning back

on the path of a leader. does one go without error? How could one go anywhere

without the assistance of the celestial command?

In Buddhist terms, this means being unbalanced and awry, relying on a little

Although inherent virtues are in everyone, in terms of confused feelings

worldly concentration and insight as the ultimate, straying through return.

they become on the contrary external. Now, if we initiate cultivation from

Therefore not only is it unfortunate, but there is also trouble. If you use this

essence, we will understand that inherent virtues are our own—so this is

to set up teachings and try to instruct people, you will defeat the purpose of

called becoming the master of the inside.

the Buddhist teaching and ruin the accurate methodology of the Buddha.

Once we have initiated cultivation in accord with essence, everything we

Even in ten years there will be no success, because imitation Buddhism is

do has to accord with the essence of reality. If our thoughts, words, or deeds

not real Buddhism, and goes against the path of leadership of the great ve-

are not yet pure, even if we have sublime understanding, we cannot help

hicle of complete all-at-once enlightenment.

ourselves or others. As long as we do not conform to our inherent virtues,

Also, in terms of the six ways of transcendence, this is giving; but it is far

the buddhas of the universe will not watch over us—so how could we go

from wisdom, so it is attached to forms, attached to rewards, giving rise to

anywhere?

pride and emotion, and also potentially giving rise to opinionated views.

Therefore, even though it may be a good cause, it will bring about bad re-

sults. This is because of not realizing the path of leadership of the teaching of THE IMAGE: Thunder travels under the sky; things accompany

with no error. Ancient kings promoted flourishing appropriate

Buddha.

to the time and nurtured myriad beings.

112 2