I CHING 2. Earth 29



"Shutting the bag, there is no blame, no praise." This means leaders trying to get rid of riffraff, because riffraff will just keep growing no

being careful. matter how much they try to get rid of them; what they should do is provide

good leadership that people will enthusiastically follow; then there will be

In Buddhist terms, if concentration and insight are capable of transforma- no need for struggle. If people understood what this means, we could get rid

tion, then people of various capacities each receive nutrition and are able to of the curse of parties and factions right away. If the leaders doubt the people,

grow. But if you enter into transmundane realization and obliterate yourself the people will doubt the leaders, and both will be harmed.

and your intellect, then you cannot help others. Therefore those who prac- In Buddhist terms, if the four meditations were mistaken for the four reali-

tice this teaching must be careful. zations in the beginning, then at the end, with the appearance of subsequent

mundane manifestations, one would doubt the teaching that there is no

Leaders comprehend design in a centered and balanced way. more mundane existence after the fourth realization. Thus one would be-

While in the correct state, they maintain their bodies. When come inclined to repudiate Buddhism. This is the inevitable "battle."

there is beauty therein, it rises in their limbs and comes out in Nevertheless, that does not mean there is no one in the world who has

truly realized the knowledge and qualities of the four realizations; therefore

their work. This is the consummation of beauty.

the text refers to the "dragon," to make it clear that the four realizations are

In Buddhist terms, one uses absorption in central balance to reach the inner not in vain.

design of the manifestation of reality. Although the manifestation of reality is As for those who mistake meditations for realizations, they may think

called the "correct state," it permeates all phenomena and maintains all they have attained the four realizations, but they are just obscurantists who

bodies. have tasted some meditation and really have not left the ranks of those

Only profound experience of meditation that is neither in the world nor caught up in the mundane whirl. Therefore the text refers to "blood," to

beyond the world can rise in the limbs and come out in work, so that the define this kind.

inconceivable influence of teaching is carried out through psychological as- "Dark yellow" represents injury to both concentration and insight; when

sessment, appropriate instruction, and practical demonstration. This teach- you damage insight by too much concentration, since insight is defective,

ing benefits those in all realms of consciousness, so it is "the consummation concentration is also defective. However, they are only defective in terms of

of beauty." cultivated qualities.

When it comes to the inherent nature of calm awareness, the dark is of

itself dark and the yellow of itself yellow; even the incorrigible cannot cut off

Yin doubting yang inevitably leads to battle, because it is not

inherent goodness, and even if there is confusion and delusion, the truth

desirable for there to be no yang. Therefore yang is referred to

always remains—there can be no mixup.

as a dragon. It is still not apart from its kind, so yin is referred

Now, to interpret in terms of contemplating mind, yin and yang can both

to as blood. "Dark yellow" means mixture of heaven and

refer to good and bad, but for now I will use yin for evil and use yang for

earth; heaven is dark and earth is yellow.

good. Good and evil have no inherent nature; they are of the same one na-

Both yin and yang arc based on the absolute, so they are based on the same ture of the potential for coming to awareness of reality—what is there to

substance; how can they doubt each other and battle? When the yang iden- doubt? What is there to battle?

tifies yang as yang and does not know that it is of the same substance as yin, Only for those who do not realize inherent good and inherent evil, affir-

it doubts yin and battles. When the yin identifies yin as yin and does not mation and denial oppose each other, producing circular arguments and in-

know that it is of the same substance as yang, it doubts yang and battles. evitable battle.

Just when yin is full, it battles yang, so it is as if there were no yang; there- When we do battle, we bury the subtle nature that is natureless, the

fore it is referred to as a dragon, to make it clear that yang is never nonexistent. subtle, selfless self, and it seems as if there were no yang, no positive energy,

When yin shifts to yang, it seems as if it has left its yin kind, so it is re- so we call on the dragon to illustrate the unbroken existence of inherent

ferred to as blood, to make it. clear that yin has not left its kind. The blood is good.

said to be dark yellow because it represents the point of movement, on the Once good and evil oppose each other, then both are already contami-

verge of change, so "dark" and "yellow" arc mixed. After the change has nated; therefore this fact is referred to as "blood," to show that people

settled, heaven is dark and earth is yellow, and these cannot be mixed up. caught up in contests of "good" and "evil" have not left the ranks of those

Someone has interpreted this passage to mean that there is no point in caught up in the mundane whirl of birth and death.

3 0 THE BUDDHIST