30.

Fire In the beginning of the exercise of contemplation, even though one has ac-

curate insight, still the practice is not yet pure; so it is like being awry. Only

fire below, fire above by intent struggle, not daring to be complacent, can virtue progress day by

day and habits be removed day by day, so as to avoid fault. Do not wait for

Fire is beneficial if correct; then there is success.

faults to arise before getting rid of them.

Raising a cow brings good fortune.



Fire has no nature of its own; it only appears cleaving to fuel—therefore it is ■ 2 yin: Yellow fire is very auspicious.

called clinging. In politics, this means that in times of multiple danger it is

necessary to cleave to just law to control society. In Buddhism, when de- THE IMAGE: Yellow fire is very auspicious,

attaining the middle way.

mons cause disturbance, it is necessary to cleave to true teaching to get rid of

aberrations. In contemplating mind, when mental states arise, it is necessary

Subtle concentration balanced correctly is developed in harmony with es-

to cleave to correct observation to dissolve obscurity. Therefore in each case

sence; using this to illumine all things causes all things to become the middle

the benefit is in being correct; then there is success.

way. This is subtle cessation of confused thought by means of the complete

A cow is gentle and docile, yet very strong; it can also give birth to calves.

fluidity of the absolute.

This symbolizes correct concentration being able to produce subtle insight.



— ■ 3 yang: In the fire of the afternoon sun, you either drum on a

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Fire is clinging the sun and moon

jug and sing, or lament as in old age. This bodes ill.

cling to the sky, plants cling to the earth. Clinging to what is

correct with twofold illumination transforms and perfects the THE I MAGE: The fire of the afternoon sun cannot last long. world. Flexibility clings to balance and correctness, and so is

successful. Therefore raising a cow brings good fortune. When you use insight too much without concentration to balance it, some-

ti mes you will be extremely joyful, drumming and singing, and sometimes

Just as the sun and moon must cling to the sky and plants must cling to the you will be extremely anxious, lamenting as in old age. Sadness and joy dis-

earth, our twofold illumination, knowledge and wisdom, also must cling to turb the song of your heart; intellectual insight cannot sustain itself—back-

the correctness of inherent virtues; then, self-help completed, we can thereby sliding and loss are inevitable.

transform the world.



Now, the light of knowledge and wisdom needs meditation concentration ■ 4 yang: Coming forth abruptly, burning, dying, abandoned.

to emerge; and meditation concentration also depends on essence for perfec-

tion. In this hexagram, the fifth yin and second yin cling to the position of

THE IMAGE: Coming forth abruptly, there is no

balance and correctness, so there is a way to success, just as a cow can give

accommodation.

birth to the calves of knowledge and wisdom, bringing good fortune.

Here, though it seems that one has insight and concentration, in reality one

THE IMAGE: Illumination doubled makes fire. Great people is not balanced and not correct, unable to harmonize the elements of the

illumine the four quarters with continuing illumination. path to enlightenment. Therefore sometimes one pushes forward too quickly,

"coming forth abruptly," and sometimes one slacks off heedlessly, "burning,

Illumination upon illumination, continuing unending, once one has person- dying, abandoned."

ally illumined one's qualities, then one can thereby illumine the four quarters. Those whose advance is too keen will surely regress quickly; if the com-

ing forth is abrupt, there will certainly be no accommodation. Why wait un-

til burning out to realize that this is not the way to a good end?

■ First yang: The steps are awry. Be heedful of this,

and there will be no fault.

128 THE BUDDHIST