5. No Error 113 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



In Buddhist terms, the full projection of the scope of complete enlighten- THE IMAGE: Medicine should not be tried when nothing is

ment benefits people in all times; this is called promoting flourishing appro- wrong.

priate to the time. Planting and ripening the seeds of liberation, causing all

This represents sane strength balanced correctly, the epitome of freedom

sorts of people to naturally grow and eventually wind up at the unique real-

from error. But those who are without error themselves may blame others

ity is called nurturing myriad beings.

too much for their faults; this is called clinging to the medicine so much that

it becomes a disease instead. Therefore "do not use medicine—there will be



■ joy." If you try to order people based on your own standards, who in the

First yang: Going without error leads to good results.

world can follow you?

THE I MAGE: Going without error, one attains one's aspiration.

■ Top yang: Even if there is no error, action involves misfortune,

This means going to respond to events based on truly genuine freedom from

so no benefit is gained.

error. Thereby one attains one's aspiration, which leads to good results.



THE I MAGE: Action without error involves misfortune



■ when it comes to an impasse. 2 yin: Not plowing for the harvest, it is beneficial to go

somewhere. This refers to clinging to a constant and not knowing how to change adap-

tively; without temporary expedients, how can one carry anything out?

THE IMAGE: Not plowing for the harvest, one is not enriched.



This means aspiring only to attain enlightenment, not thinking of riches or In Buddhist terms, all six lines represent those who understand principle

rank. Then it is beneficial to go somewhere. that is without error and make it their practice and realization.

The first yang is accurate insight advancing directly, whereby one gets re-



■ sults in the present life and attains one's aspiration. 3 yin: The misfortune of no error—a tethered cow is a gain for The second yin is correct concentration overcoming habits; therefore it is

a traveler, a misfortune for the local people.

necessary not to grasp meditation methods or take them as final realization,

so that one can just use them as a way back home.

THE IMAGE: When a traveler finds the cow, it is a misfortune

The third yin is not balanced and not correct. Though one has a little con-

for the local people.

centrated insight and can show people how to find the way and attain re-

This represents the unbalanced and aberrant who cling to a principle that is sults, that is like a traveler finding a cow and is instead a loss to oneself, as

without error and make it into a misfortune. When a traveler finds the cow, one lingers in an ordinary state—like the "misfortune of the local people."

why then cling to principle and seek a reward from the local people? Is this The fourth yang is insight with concentration, more than enough to help

not misfortune extending to the innocent? oneself. This is finding inherent concentration and insight; it is not attained

after practice.

The fifth yang is sane strength balanced correctly. Self-help is already

■ 4 yang: One should be correct; then there is no error. complete, so one acts compassionately for the benefit of others. It is no

longer necessary to use "medicine" to cure oneself. Even a beginner's prac-

THE IMAGE: One should be correct; then there is no error— tice of contemplation is like this—all mental objects are inherent qualities,

this is inherent. so when you comprehend obstacles, they are virtues, and there is nothing to

"cure."

This means not being disposed to act arbitrarily just because one is strong;

The top yang is not balanced and not correct; this is relying on inherent

the reason is that inherent virtue is thus.

virtues and not working on cultivated virtues. If one's own actions are full of

mistakes, what benefit can there be? It is because of only talking loftily

■ about transcendence that one comes to an impasse, so that it becomes a 5 yang: For sickness without error, do not use medicine—

there will be joy. misfortune.

114