63. Settled path reaches an impasse.

THE IMAGE: Water over fire—settled. Developed people

fire below, water above

consider problems and prevent them.

Settlement is successful, even in small matters. It is bene-

ficial to be correct; otherwise there is good fortune at first When settlement has taken place, it seems as if there were no problems, but

but confusion in the end. problems will surely come along; so developed people consider them seri-

ously and prevent them. This is what the statement on the hexagram calls

Developed people deal with things by using deference to settle arrogance, beneficial correctness.

pity to settle disregard, frugality to settle extravagance. In all matters, when

balance is attained, then everything is settled. ■ First yang: Dragging the wheels—it is right that there

Because everything is settled, there is success, not only in great matters, be no problem.

but also in small matters. That is to say that everything turns out all right.

But when secure, do not forget danger; while you are alive, do not forget All six lines indicate considering problems and preventing them. Since the

death; in times of order, do not forget confusion—this is a true principle that hexagram stands for settlement, in the first line the settlement has already

applies to all times. taken place. The wheels are still skidding, yet you are ready to go; the tail is

Observe how a boat that does not capsize in rapids will turn over in a still wet, yet you are ready to cross the river—this stands for not forgetting

canal, how a horse that does not stumble on a winding mountain trail will that there will be something to do, even in times when there is nothing to

stumble on level ground: it is not because the canal and the level ground are do, preparing for it beforehand so as not to wind up in confusion. Therefore

more dangerous than the rapids and the mountain trail; calamity always it is right that there be no error.

comes from failure to anticipate it. There is no greater problem than lack of



preparedness. ■ 2 yin: A woman loses her protection. Let her not give chase:

Therefore it is always beneficial to be correct, in order to sustain success.

she will find it in seven days.

Otherwise, on first attaining settlement, everyone considers it auspicious and

thereby winds up by bringing on hopeless confusion. THE IMAGE: She will find it in seven days because of her

This is like water being boiled to make it drinkable; if you are not careful balanced course.

232 THE BUDDHIST