56.

Travel mountain. Therefore punishments can be applied, but people are not to be

kept in prison. If people are kept imprisoned without judgment, this means

mountain below, fire above losing not only understanding but prudence as well.

In terms of contemplating mind, when thoughts arise, notice them. On

Travel has a little success. Travel is auspicious if correct.

noticing them, break through them by reflection, without becoming excited

or rueful.

After midday, the sun begins to set; after the moon becomes full, it begins to

wane: therefore, after richness, travel is explained. Richness adds greatness,



travel has a little success; but there is no great or small in correctness—it is ■ First yin: Petty fussing on a journey brings misfortune. great in the great, small in the small. The essential point is not to lose cor-

rectness; then it is auspicious wherever one goes. THE IMAGE: Petty fussing on a journey results in the misfortune

of frustration.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Travel has a little success. Flexibility

Here negative weakness is in a low position, not balanced, not correctly ori-

attains balance on the outside and harmonizes with power. ented. This is one who gets worn out with petty fussing on a journey. Lack-

Calmly cleaving to understanding, therefore there is a little

ing lofty intelligence and great aspiration, one brings misfortune on oneself.

success, and travel is auspicious if correct. The significance of

the time of travel is great indeed.

■ 2 yin: Coming to an inn on a journey with supplies in hand,

Because of being outside, a journey is called travel. When on a journey, it is

one gains the loyalty of a servant.

best to be flexible, and in applying flexibility it is best to be balanced. When



balanced, one can harmonize with power, so that there is nowhere in the THE IMAGE: Gaining the loyalty of a servant, after all there is world where it is difficult to be. By being calm, one can be at peace wherever

no complaint.

one is. By cleaving to understanding, one can see opportunities and act.

The correctness of this travel is the correctness of creativity, the cor- When traveling, for each line the next line above it is an inn, a resting place.

rectness of receptivity, the correctness of the whole process. The great sages Yin should stick with yang, and yang should stick with yin. Now the second

of all times, from emperors down to commoners, have all dealt with travel yin is flexible, balanced, and correct, harmonizing with the strength of the

completely in terms of correctness of creativity, receptivity, and the whole third yang; therefore it "comes to an inn." Being yin in a yin place, and also



210 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 5