7. Wind 213



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Double wind expresses directions. THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about this frequency is the

Strength follows balance and rectitude, so the aim is carried attainment of balance.

out. The weak all follow the strong, so the small come through

successfully, benefiting from having a place to go, benefiting The positive strength of the fifth yang is balanced and correct; it is the master

from seeing great people. of Wind and is as though sitting on a platform. The second yang then stands

for the administrator with the virtue of obedience, who should be below the

When people with leadership qualities are on a journey, if they get a following platform. However, since here one has gotten the obedience of the first yin

they become leaders. When the people have ability and follow the leaders, the because of one's strength and central position, one cannot avoid suspicion of

leaders are then considerate and respectful, expressing their directions in plotting to take power. Therefore it is necessary to use scribes to record one's

such a way as to comfort the people and make them secure. actions and use mediums to convey one's sincerity, doing so frequently, not

It is because strength follows the virtues of balance and rectitude that the daring to be remiss. Then balance is attained, and there is good fortune,

aim can be carried out; therefore the weak all follow it. If the strong are not no blame.

balanced and upright, they cannot win over the weak; if the weak do not



follow the strong, they cannot even attain a little success. The benefit they ■ 3 yang: Repeatedly attempting obedience is humiliating. get from having a place to go and seeing great people is just how the small

come through successfully; if they do not go and see the great, how can

THE IMAGE: The humiliation of repeatedly attempting obedience

they succeed? is that the aim is frustrated.



One who is strong and in a position of strength is not one who can be obe-

THE IMAGE: Wind following wind—thus do leaders articulate

dient; trying to learn obedience, time and again one fails. When the aim is

directions and carry out tasks.

frustrated, it is not merely that the mind wavers; the wavering can be over-

Only when the wind comes continuously can it sway things; only when come, but the frustration is humiliating.

leaders articulate their directions clearly and carry out their tasks earnestly



can they move the people. Therefore the virtue of true leaders is likened ■ 4 yin: Regret vanishes. The hunt yields three catches. to wind.

THE IMAGE: The hunt yields three catches—there is success.



■ First yin: Advancing and retreating, it is beneficial to be as Flexibility that is correct is the main point in obedience. Following a leader

steadfast as a soldier. who is strong and balanced, this line represents an easygoing, magna-

nimous high official, whom all the wise and talented people in the world

THE IMAGE: Advancing and retreating means the mind is

would be glad to work for. Therefore it is like making three catches on a

wavering. The benefit of the steadfastness of a soldier is that

hunt; the three catches are the other three yangs besides the fifth, which is

the mind is under control.

in the position of leader.



The first yin is the subject of Wind. Wind focuses on entering, but being re-

cessive and weak, it suffers from many doubts; therefore it may advance, but ■ 5 yang: Correctness leads to good fortune; regret vanishes,

then retreats after a while. Now there is nothing in the world to doubt; it is none do not benefit. There is no beginning, but there is an

only that one's mind itself wavers. Resolve this with the steadfastness of a end. The three days before a change and the three days after

soldier, and the mind will be under control; then there is nothing in the a change are auspicious. world that is hard to manage. The steadfastness of a soldier spoken of here is

what the judgment calls having a place to go and seeing great people. THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about the fifth yang is that its

position is correctly balanced.



■ 2 yang: Obedience below the platform, using scribes and Though one may have the qualities, if one does not have the position, one

mediums frequently, is auspicious, without blame. dare not presume to make changes. If one has the position but does not have

214 THE BUDDHIST