23. Stripping Away 105



because petty people are increasing. Accordingly stopping this Strip a bed of its legs, and there is nowhere to rest the body. The first line is at

is watching the form. Leaders value the process of waxing and the bottom, so it is like stripping away the legs. In political terms, this refers

waning, filling and emptying; this is the action of heaven. to bad citizens. In Buddhism, this refers to bad sanctuary keepers. In con-

templating mind, this refers to removing the foundation of discipline.

In political terms, after disarmament and development of culture, people

In a positive sense, this is stripping away the causes of miserable states.

tend to indulge in comfort, leading to the inevitable decline of the basic en-

But if there were no miserable states, then great compassion would have

ergy of the country.

no object of focus; hence the warning that destroying uprightness brings

In Buddhist terms, when there are too many regulations, this inevitably misfortune.

defeats real practice.

In terms of contemplating mind, there is a positive sense and a negative

sense. The positive sense is that after concentrated insight is developed, the ■ 2 yin: Stripping a bed of its frame, destroying uprightness

"skin" of the ego is stripped away and true reality alone remains. The nega- brings misfortune.

tive sense is that mundane imitation of concentration and insight can de-

velop mundane intellect and ability, but the essential practice of real cultiva- THE IMAGE: Stripping a bed of its frame, there is nothing to

tion will be overcome by this. work with.

Leaving the positive sense aside for the moment, here we are talking

In political terms, this refers to bad officials. In Buddhism, this refers to bad

about the negative sense. That is, it is not beneficial to go anywhere, whether

patrons. In contemplating mind, this refers to eliminating meditation con-

in terms of worldly or transcendental affairs. Now, when it says it is not bene-

centration; without concentration, the mind is scattered and cannot deal

ficial to go anywhere, this does not mean taking a laissez-faire attitude to-

with truth, so "there is nothing to work with."

ward stripping away; it refers to subtle work toward restoration. To go on

In positive terms, this is stripping away unfocused virtue. But if there were

would result in stripping away; not to go is to accordingly stop this. This is

no unfocused virtue at all, then there would be no way to accommodate and

how to restore the full cycle of the process of waxing and waning, filling and

guide people; hence again the warning that destroying uprightness brings

emptying, so as to accord with the action of heaven.

misfortune.



THE IMAGE: Mountains cleave to the earth. Those above secure

their homes by kindness to those below. ■ 3 yin: Stripping away without fault.



In political terms, this means rulers need people; if the people are satisfied, THE IMAGE: Stripping away without fault loses above and below.

the rulers should be satisfied. Therefore they can only secure their homes by

In politics, this refers to a leader who mixes in among the populace, un-

kindness to those below. This is the best strategy for saving oneself from

beknownst to them. In Buddhism, this refers to outside protectors who have

being overthrown.

true insight. In contemplating mind, this refers to stripping away knowledge.

In terms of contemplating mind, this means that the work of higher devel-

Stripping away knowledge means not being attached to knowledge, so one

opment must be understood from right where you stand.

In Buddhist terms, the six lines show how both laypeople and initiates are can effect accomplishment through this defeat, cutting through dualism and

"losing above and below."

caught up in personal ambitions, from which only the wise are aloof.

In positive terms, this is stripping away addictive meditation and ignorant

In terms of contemplating mind, they show how when cultivated good is

concentration in the realms of form and formlessness, thereby getting to be

completely destroyed, inherent good alone is never destroyed.

without fault.



■ First yin: Stripping a bed of its legs, destroying uprightness

brings misfortune. ■ 4 yin: Stripping a bed to the skin brings misfortune.



THE IMAGE: THE IMAGE: Stripping a bed of its legs is destroying the Stripping a bed to the skin is getting very

foundation. close to disaster.



10 6