27. Nourishment 119

118 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



■ First yang: To give up your sacred tortoise and watch me greedily ■ 4 yin: Reverse nourishment is auspicious. The tiger watches

leads to misfortune. intently, about to give chase. No fault.



THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about reverse nourishment is

THE IMAGE: To watch me greedily is not worthy of respect.

giving out light from above.

Positive strength is a tool to nourish oneself' and others as well; knowing

when to stop is the right way to nourish oneself and others. The first yang When flexibility is correctly oriented and is under control, even if one has

no means of nourishment, one has found the right way to nourish. This line

represents positive strength that is sufficient to nourish oneself, like a sacred

corresponds with the first yang, depending on that nourishment for self-

tortoise that ingests the energy in the air and so does not need food. To give

nourishment and nourishment of others. This is like an easygoing, tolerant

this up and watch another's food is greed; thus you lose what is valuable and

suffer misfortune. This is like a leader who proceeds too rapidly; in Buddhist official. This is a way to good results.

In the first yang, you watch me greedily, and I deal politely with your in-

terms it is like an ordinary externalist with merely theoretical knowledge

tent watching, about to give chase. This is not worthy of esteem at first, but

that cannot help people.

as far as I am concerned, it is a way to nurture the wise for the effect this



■ extends to the populace. This can be called "giving out light from above."

2 yin: Perverting nourishment brushes aside the constant.

In Buddhism, this is like when wise and good people manage affairs and

Feeding on high ground, an expedition bodes ill.

skillfully act as outside protectors of the teaching.

THE IMAGE: An expedition bodes ill for the second yin,

because the action loses companionship. ■ 5 yin: Brushing aside the constant, it is good to remain upright,

but it will not do to cross a great river.

For those above to nourish those below is the rational constant. Here one in

a higher position is recessive and weak, and relies on strength from below What is good about remaining upright is following THE IMAGE:

for nourishment; so this "brushes aside the constant." those above docilely.

Also, this line is in the body of movement; one may not be willing to rest

When one is weak and has no means to nourish people, one is in a position

content in one's own lot, and so may seek to feed on the "high ground" of

of leadership in vain; therefore it is called "brushing aside the constant." But

the fifth yin. The fifth yin may respond, but it is also weak and unable to

if one is in control of oneself and obediently follows those who are more

nourish itself, so how can it nourish others? So to go on the expedition will

highly developed, this also nourishes the wise, the effects of which reach

only bring misfortune. Both the second and the fifth are yin, without any

ability to balance each other, so this is "losing companionship." the populace; this is finding what is right.

This is like a useless official. In Buddhist terms, it is like those who expe- However, in this case one can only deal with what is normal, and cannot

rience blind meditation and lose their bearings. deal with change; it is better to preserve what is established and not try to

start any new works. This is like wise leaders who make naught of them-



■ selves. In Buddhism, this is like flexible and harmonious fellow practitioners

3 yin: Going against nourishment is inauspicious even if there

is rectitude. Do not act on this for ten years; there is nothing who urge each other on.

to be gained.

■ Top yang: At the source of nourishment, it is good to be diligent,

THE IMAGE: Do not act on this for ten years, for the way is beneficial to cross a great river.

greatly confused.

THE IMAGE: At the source of nourishment, it is good to be

The weak cannot nourish themselves; if they are also not balanced correctly diligent. There will be great celebration.

and dwell on the climax of action in this state, this is going against nourish-

ment. Even though there is a correct correspondence with the top yang, this Here positive strength is at the peak of control; this is why the hexagram is

cannot save them, and they wind up useless. called nourishment. This is like being the tutor of an up-and-corning ruler,

This is like crooked executives and officials. In Buddhism, it is like the thus able to help the whole country. In Buddhism, this is like a teacher who

has realized enlightenment and is in charge of the mystic order.

senses deranging people so that they lose their standards.



120 The Passing of Greatness THE BUDDHIST I CHING 28. 121



rooted and development have a proper basis; then it is possible to refine and

support the mediocre.