I CHING 64. Unsettled 235



THE IMAGE: Fire over water—unsettled. Developed people ride a boat across great rivers, not vainly relying on one's own power, then

carefully discern things and keep them in their places. danger can be resolved.



The natures of things must be discerned, and they must be put in their ap-

propriate places; therefore developed people are careful about this. For ex- ■ 4 yang: Correctness brings good results; regret vanishes.

ample, the nature of fire is to flame upward, and the nature of water is to Vigorously acting to conquer barbarians, in three years one

flow downward; these are things that must be distinguished. When fire has the reward of a great country.

flames up, it rises, whereas it should be below water to balance it. When

THE IMAGE: Correctness brings good results; regret vanishes.

water flows down, it descends, whereas it should rise to balance fire. This is

The aim is carried out.

an example of how things should be put in their places.

Water can control fire, and it can also extinguish fire; fire can balance

When strong but not excessive, one is like the sun rising, attaining the vir-

water, and it can also evaporate water. Also, water and fire can nurture

tue, ability, and position appropriate to the time of settlement. Therefore cor-

people, and they can also kill people. This one example can stand for all

rectness brings good results and regret vanishes. When one activates the

things, showing how it is necessary to distinguish with precision and clarity,

function of great illumination and conquers the "barbarians" of ignorance,

to assess their proper places.

in "three years" the work is accomplished, so there will be the reward of a

great country. At the time of settlement, the aim one cherished in seclusion

■ can be carried out. First yin: Getting the tail wet is humiliating.



THE IMAGE: Getting the tail wet, one still does not know the ■ 5 yin: Correctness brings good results; regret vanishes. li mit.

The illumination of developed people has truthfulness and

Here one is weak and in a low position, with nothing to balance worldly leads to good results.

cleverness, about to end up in an unsettled condition; this is shameful.

THE IMAGE: The radiance of the illumination of developed

Would one who knows that the momentum of the time is at an end be so

people leads to good results.

stubborn and contemptuous as to pretend to power?

Here flexibility in balance, the main element of illumination, is in the posi-



■ tion of leadership; this is fundamentally correct, fundamentally without re-

2 yang: Dragging the wheels, rectitude is auspicious.

gret. This is the illumination of developed people. This also stands for open-

THE IMAGE: The good outlook of the rectitude of the second ing oneself to be honest with the second yang, so that the illumination of

yang is because its activity is balanced. both mutually reflects; the whole world looks up to this, and it surely leads

to good results.

Being strong but not excessive, thereby proceeding while dragging the

wheels, is the right way to go on attaining settlement. Because of being cen-

tered, one can act correctly and see that balance and rectitude are not two ■ Top yang: There is sincerity in drinking wine, without fault.

But if one becomes totally immersed, having faith ceases to be

principles.

right.



■ THE IMAGE: Becoming totally immersed in drinking wine is 3 yin: While unsettled, it bodes ill to go on an expedition,

but it is beneficial to cross great rivers. also not knowing proper measure.



The truthfulness leading to good results in the fifth yin is the settlement of

THE IMAGE: It bodes ill to go on an expedition while unsettled,

the world; therefore the top yang preserves what has been accomplished,

because the position is inappropriate.

and has sincerity in drinking wine—this is sharing pleasure with the people,

Here yin is not balanced correctly; both ability and virtue are inferior, so it a course of action that is blameless.

bodes ill to proceed. However, it is about time to get out of danger; if one can But the way developed people relate to the world is that they do not forget 236 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



danger when secure, they do not forget death while alive, and they do not Key for Identifying the Hexagrams

forget disorder in times of order; if they gave themselves up entirely to en-

joying the pleasures of peace, and had no sense of striving and caution, that

would be like becoming immersed in drinking wine. I am sure they would TRIGRAMS

certainly lose the happiness of the present, because they did not know Ch'ien Chen K'an Ken K'un Sun Li Tui

UPPER



proper measure. I ~ — LOWER s - - - - - — Proper measure is like the four seasons of nature, which cannot exceed--I



their bounds. This is also called the limit. The weakness of the first yin is that Chi'en 5 1 34 26 11 9 14 43 doubt is excessive; so it is referred to as still not knowing the limit. The ada-

mancy of the top yang is that faith is excessive; so it is referred to as not



knowing proper measure. Chen 25 51 3 27 24 42 21 17

Knowing limits and knowing proper measure, the unsettled can be set-



tled, and having attained settlement, the settled can be preserved. K'an 6 40 29 4

7 59 64 47



Ken

33 62 39 52 15 53 56 31



K'un 12 16 8 23 2 20 35 45



Sun

44 32 48 18 46 57 50 28



Li 13 55 63 22 36 37 30 49



Tai 60 10 54 41 19 61 38 58