45. Gathering 175

174

assemble as long as they are armed and able to defend themselves." In Bud-

dhist terms, this refers to the inner prohibitions of the disciplinary code. In



45. habits. Gathering terms of contemplating mind, this refers to esoteric spells for overcoming



earth below, lake above



Gathering is successful. The king goes to his shrine. It is ■ First yin: There is trust, but it does not last to the end. There is

beneficial to see a great person; this leads to success. It is disorder and mobbing. If you cry, laughter is mixed in. Do not

beneficial to be correct. It is good to make a great sacrifice. worry; it is blameless to go.

It is beneficial to go somewhere.

THE IMAGE: "Disorder and mobbing" means confusion of

Meeting and thus gathering is normal in both mundane and transmundane mind.

matters. How can gathering not lead to success? Because of the gathering of

the feelings of the unseen and the apparent, there is a shrine to go to; be- When it is time to gather, everyone wants to gather. The two yangs in the

cause of the gathering of the feelings of the higher and the lower, a great hexagram represent the leaders of the gathering, and the four yins represent

person can be seen. Making a great sacrifice to go to the shrine, it is bene- those who gather around them. The first yin and fourth yang are proper cor-

ficial to go somewhere to see a great person. These are all matters of course respondents; they are basically to be trusted, but since they are not balanced

when obeying the duties of the time; this is what is meant by being correct. correctly, they cannot take their trust to its proper conclusion, so there is

"disorder and mobbing." Because there is disorder, you may cry; because

there is mobbing, laughter is mixed in. But since they are proper correspon-

Gathering is assembly. Obeying dents, why doubt or worry? It is better for the first yin to go follow the

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT:

joyfully, firmness balanced and responsive, hence there is fourth yang; this is blameless. It is because of confusion of mind that crying

gathering. The king goes to his shrine, practicing piety and laughter are mixed; this means that the principle of correspondence it-

successfully. It is beneficial to see a great person, leading self has never been confused.

to success; this is gathering correctly. It is good to make a



sacrifice, beneficial to go somewhere; this is obeying the ■ 2 yin: mandate of heaven. Observe what is gathered, and the Drawing out is good and blameless. If trusted

conditions of heaven, earth, and myriad beings can be seen. it is beneficial to perform a ceremony.



Various expressions are used in the I Ching to express the successful carrying THE IMAGE: Drawing out is good and blameless, as balance

through of pious behavior; in this case it says, "making a great sacrifice." has not changed.

Various expressions are also used to express going to see great people; in this

case it says, it is beneficial to go somewhere." There is nothing personal Here flexible docility is balanced and correct, corresponding with the leader-

about it. When it is appropriate to be abstemious, then be abstemious; when ship of positive strength in correct balance represented by the fifth yang

it is appropriate to be lavish, then be lavish. When it is appropriate to go, above; basically there is nothing suspicious. But the first yin and the third

then go; when it is appropriate to come back, then come. All of these are yin both go to gather around the fourth yang, and one is in between these

ways of obeying the mandate of heaven and observing the conditions of t wo yins; if one does not draw oneself out, how can one get the confidence

people and things. of the fifth yang? If one draws oneself out and wins trust, then it is not nec-

essary to make a great sacrifice; just to perform a ceremony will still be



THE I MAGE: Moisture rises onto the earth—gathering Thus do respondent is like performing a ceremony; it requires very little. But this is . beneficial. Leaving the two yins behind and going alone to follow one's cor-

leaders prepare weapons to guard against the unexpected. only because the second yin has the virtue of balance. Such a one does not

change his discipline to follow others who are weak, as represented by the

One commentator says, "Moisture can gather into a body of water on the two surrounding yins. surface of the earth if there are retaining walls; people can live in peace and 176