48. The Well 183 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



balanced course. It is beneficial to make ceremonial offerings A village can be changed, but a well cannot be changed. When change is

because one receives blessings. possible, there is loss and there is gain; if change is not possible, how can

there be any loss or gain?

The fifth yang represents positive strength that is balanced and correct, in Those who have drunk water go; those who are yet to drink come. People

the honored position, looking upon the whole world as one being. The top come and go, but the well does not come and go.

yin is "exhausted in difficulty"—this is like cutting off one's nose; the bot- When you draw water up from the well, then you have achieved your pur-

tom yin is "exhausted on a tree stump"—this is like cutting off one's feet. pose; if you overturn the bucket before drawing it up from the well, this is

One then relies on the second yang for cooperation in solving the impasse of unlucky. This is gain and loss for the person; it is not the gain or loss of

the time; this is like a regal robe, but the second yang is at this moment "ex- the well.

hausted in the midst of food and drink," so this fifth yang is "exhausted in a If you know how a well has no gain or loss, then you will know how in-

regal robe." Nevertheless, the second yang is balanced and straightforward, herent virtues can he different yet always identical. If you know how people

and will surely respond gradually, so that there is joy; one should react to have gain and loss, then you will know how cultivated virtues can be identi-

this with utmost sincerity, as in making a ceremonial offering, in order to cal yet always different.

receive blessings.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: The well nourishes inexhaustibly.

■ Top yin: Exhausted in difficulty, in distress, thinking there will Changing the village without changing the well is because of

be regret if one acts, one does regret. Going forth leads to strength and balance. Before the water is drawn up from the

good fortune. well, the purpose is not yet achieved. Overturning the bucket

is the cause of bad luck.

THE I MAGE: Exhausted in difficulty, one has not hit the mark.

There is regret because of regretting action; good fortune is There is water in the earth, so if you dig into the earth, you will find water.

to go. This is symbolic of the potential for enlightenment being inherent in all ele-

ments of experience; so if you examine the elements of experience, you will

At the extreme of exhaustion, one should go on actively. If one is negative,

realize the potential for enlightenment. But it is important to use the power

weak, and feeble in ability, one doubts whether one's ideas are right; this is of extremely calm observation to penetrate deeply and bring it out in the

like being all tangled up and ill at ease. Fearing that if one acts one will re-

open. Once this hidden essence is revealed, it nourishes oneself and nour-

gret it, one always shrinks back, regrettably. Therefore sages go directly forth

ishes others inexhaustibly.

to good fortune, resolving this.

In Exhaustion, the "fortune of the upright great person" is due to strength

and balance; here, "changing the village without changing the well" is also

said to be due to strength and balance. Exhaustion seems to point solely to

cultivated qualities, but really it makes it clear that the completion of cultiva-

48. tion lies in essential nature. The present hexagram seems to point solely to The Well

inherent qualities, but really it calls for people to develop cultivation with

wind below, water above the whole essential nature. Therefore it explains that it is unlucky to upset

the bucket before anything is achieved, laying great emphasis on cultivated

Changing the village, not changing the well, there is no

qualities.

loss, no gain. People come and go, but the well remains a

well. Lowering the bucket to the water, if you overturn the

bucket before drawing it up from the well, this is unlucky. THE IMAGE: Water above wood—a well. Leaders comfort the

people and encourage reciprocity.

A well is something that stays in its place in spite of movement. If you know

how a well stays in place in spite of movement, you will know how to get Carrying water to give to others can only reach a few; digging a well and

through the impasse of exhaustion; therefore The Well is explained after letting them draw from it will benefit many. "Carrying water" is contrived

Exhaustion. good, "digging a well" is uncontrived good. The way leaders comfort the

184 THE BUDDHIST 1 CITING