55. Richness 207

206 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



■ First yang: Meeting your partner, even though you are equals, see the raindrops flying in the sunlight and lose the attainment of the king yin and yang combine and shower a downpour of rain. Therefore you only

there is no problem. If you go on, there will be exaltation.

adding greatness; after all, you cannot do anything thereby. For understand-

ing, the left is best; for action, the right is best. The top yin is at the extreme

THE IMAGE: Though you are equals, there is no problem, but if

of action, being hurt through arbitrary action; in terms of the third yang,

you carry equality too far, there will be disaster.

this is like breaking the right arm. This is the fault of the top yin, not the

In the lines of the other hexagrams, the correspondence of yin and yang is fault of the third yang.

considered right, as in ancient political science when the weak govern

firmly and the enlightened govern gently. Only in the lines of richness is the

pairing of yang with yang and yin with yin considered right, as in ancient . 4 yang: With abundant shade, you see stars at midday.

political science when powerful enemies are overcome by strength and weak Meeting the hidden master is auspicious.

allies are governed gently.

The first yang here is strong and upright; meeting the fourth yang, they THE IMAGE: With abundant shade, the position is not

become partners and refine each other through their interaction. Therefore, appropriate. Seeing the stars at midday means it is dark and

even though you are equals there is no problem, and if you go on there will dim. Meeting the hidden master is auspicious in terms of

be exaltation. If you do not go on quickly, and come to carry equality too far, action.

you will not avoid "the sun setting after noon," and there will be disaster.

As positive strength is the master of action, producing clouds that block the

sun, so the shade is abundant and you see stars at midday. Luckily you meet

■ the first yang, which is firm and upright, like the sun just rising, so there is 2 yin: With abundant shade, you see stars at midday. If you go,

you will be afflicted by doubt. If sincerity is expressed, there value in proceeding. Its power can be your "hidden master," dispersing the

will be good fortune. dark mist, illumining the world as it goes, not losing the meaning of rich

success—therefore it is auspicious.

THE IMAGE: Expressing sincerity means expressing intention For the second yin, the abundant shade in which you see stars points to

truthfully. the fifth yin being obscured by the fourth yang. Here the fourth yang makes

its own shade abundant, causing the stars to be visible in the daytime, so it is

The second yin is the focus of fire, representing one who is most illumined.

criticized for being out of place, dark and dim.

Uniting with the flexible balance of the fifth yin allows mutual benefit, but

the fifth yin is blocked by the fourth yang, so this is like seeing stars at mid-

day because of the abundant shade. Now, the fifth yin is a gentle friend, and ■ 5 yin: Bringing brilliance, there is celebration and praise.

can be moved by sincerity, not to be answered in haste—therefore, if you go, This is auspicious.

you will be doubted. Only if sincerity is expressed will there be good for-

tune, because truthfulness can get rid of doubt, and its expression gets rid of THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about the fifth yin is that

the shadows. The shade is basically not real; it only exists because of doubt. there is joyful celebration.

When the intention is expressed, doubt is removed, and when doubt is re-

Here flexible balance is in the place of honor, while the second yin brings it

moved, the shade is gone and the "sun" can be seen.

to light with sincerity. Although this totally depends on the latter's quality of

illumination, it is also due to one's ability to bring it out. This represents

■ 3 yang: With abundant rain, you see the drops in the sunlight. ruler and administrators combining their good qualities, so that all the

You break your right arm but are not to blame. world benefits.



THE IMAGE: When the rain is abundant, you cannot do great

works. When you break your right arm, it cannot be used. ■ Top yin: Making the house rich, shading the home. A peek in

One who is strong and upright, and also has understanding, can thereby the door finds quiet, no one there, unseen for three years.

Inauspicious.

observe the world. But because the third yang corresponds with the top yin,

208 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 5