44. Meeting 1 73



edge is not meditation; knowledge without meditation is not knowledge. In When one is talking loftily about essence and flaunting uncontrolled intel-

Buddhism, these are complementary and must be linked to one another. lectualism, one does not know that this causes misfortune. Then, when one

Here, one yin arises at the bottom and is arrested by the metal brake of is about to die and sees hellish visions, one will regret one's insufficiency, just

the second yang; this is the correct course, which leads to good fortune. If like one who only finds out there is no fish in the bag after having left the

it is not arrested, then it will go somewhere, and if it goes it will run into river.

misfortune, like an emaciated pig that will be able to leap as long as it has



not been tamed already. The course of flexibility should be linked with ■ 5 yang: Wrapping a melon in river willows, containing

the quality of firmness; then they form a partnership and can accomplish

brilliance, there is a descent from heaven.

something.

THE IMAGE: The fifth yang contains brilliance, being balanced



■ correctly. There is a descent from heaven, aspiration not 2 yang: There is a fish in the bag. There is no blame.

disregarding destiny.

It is not beneficial to visitors.



Willow branches are supple and long; use these to wrap a melon, and the

THE IMAGE: When there is a fish in the bag, duty does not

branches and vine intertwine inextricably. This represents the meeting of the

extend to visitors.

second yang and the first yin. The fifth yang is the director of Meeting and

When cultivation reveals essential nature, essential nature then has cultiva- dwells on high, distant and unreachable. However, since here one's firm

tion; when concentration activates insight, insight then has concentration. strength is balanced correctly, one's inherent qualities form seeds after long

When essential nature and cultivation are perfected through interaction development and are about to burst forth in glory; so the text speaks of

with each other, and concentration and insight are equal, this is the blameless "containing brilliance."

path. But it can only be realized within oneself—it cannot be expressed to Because one's aspiration does not disregard destiny, one is not willing to

others. be reckless. So even though there is no meeting with the first yin, there

surely will be "a descent from heaven" to meet one. Discovery of what

is inherent is called "from heaven," and spontaneous accord is called "a

■ 3 yang: With no flesh on the buttocks, the walk is halting. descent."

There is danger, but no great fault.



THE IMAGE: The walk is halting because it is unconnected. ■ Top yang: Meeting horn is humiliating, but there is no blame.



The second yang is near the first yin, so "there is a fish in the bag." The third THE IMAGE: Meeting horn is the humiliation of coming

yang is far from the first yin, so there is "no flesh on the buttocks." If' there is to an impasse above. no flesh, one's walk will be halting. But even though it is dangerous, there is

no great fault, because the third yang is together with the first yin in the At the end of meeting, one does not meet with flexibility; this is called

body of "meeting horn." This is like those devoted to individual liberation, who are wind, which represents harmony; it is just that its progress is not yet

linked up with the course of flexibility. biased toward insight into absolute emptiness. Nevertheless, they do escape

the misfortune of having no fish in the bag, yet they do not avoid the hu-

miliation of stunted potential.

■ 4 yang: No fish in the bag; this causes misfortune.



THE IMAGE: The misfortune of having no fish is that

of alienating the people.



When strength is not balanced correctly, one clings to essential nature and

neglects cultivation, relies on intellect and neglects concentration. This is

like a top executive dwelling in a high position and alienating the people.



THE BUDDHIST I CUING