The



Buddhist



I Ching



Chih-hsu Ou-i



Translated by Thomas Cleary





SHAMBHALA • BOSTON & LONDON • 1994

Shambhala Publications, Inc. Contents Horticultural Hall



300 Massachusetts Avenue

Boston, Massachusetts 02115



© 1987 by Thomas Cleary Translator's Introduction vii

Using The Buddhist I Ching xviii



All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any I How to Consult the Ching xx form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including

photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and

1. Heaven 1

retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publisher.

2. Earth 19

9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2

3. Difficulty 30

Printed in the United States of America on acid-free paper ®

4. Darkness 35

Distributed in the United States by Random House, Inc., and in

5. Waiting 39

Canada by Random House of Canada Ltd

6. Contention 42

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 7. The Army 46

Chih-hsu, 1599-1655. 8. Accord 50

The Buddhist I ching. 9. Small Obstruction (Nurturance of the Small) 54

(Shambhala dragon) 10. Treading 58

Translation of: Chou i ch'an chieh. 11. Tranquillity 60

1. I ching. I. Cleary, Thomas F., 1949 - 12. Obstruction 64

II. Title. III. Series.

13. Sameness with People 68

PL2464.Z6C5313 1987 299'.51282 86-31460

14. Great Possession 72

ISBN 0-87773-408-9 (pbk.)

15. Humility 76

16. Joy 80

17. Following 84

18. Degeneration 87

19. Overseeing 91

20. Observing 93

21. Biting Through 97

22. Adornment 100

23. Stripping Away 103

24. Return 107

25. No Error 111

26. Great Buildup 114

27. Nourishment 117

28. The Passing of Greatness 120

29. Multiple Danger 123

30. Fire 126

31. Sensing 128

32. Constancy 132

33. Withdrawal 135

34. The Power of the Great 137

35. Advance 140

36. Damage of Illumination (Concealment of Illumination) 143

37. People in the Home 146



38. Opposition 149 Translator's Introduction 39. Trouble 153

40. Solution 156

41. Reduction 160

42. Increase 163

43. Decision (Parting) 167

44. Meeting 170 I This book is a reading of the classic Ching by the noted Chinese Buddhist

45. Gathering 174 Chih-hsu Ou-i (1599-1655), an outstanding author of the late Ming dy-46. Rising 177

nasty whose work influenced the development of modern Buddhism in

47. Exhaustion 179 I China. Ou-i uses the Ching to elucidate issues in social, psychological, and 48. The Well 182

spiritual development.

49. Change 185 I The Ching is the most ancient Chinese book of wisdom, widely consid-50. The Cauldron 189

ered a basic guide for conscious living. While it has been extensively ex-

51. Thunder 192

pounded by the traditional sociologists and psychologists of the Confucian

52. Mountain 195

and Taoist schools, the written records of Chinese Buddhism are nearly si-

53. Gradual Progress 198 lent on the I Ching. Of course, several key phrases and signs were adopted

54. Marrying a Young Girl 202 into the commentaries of the Ch'an (Zen), Hua-yen, and other Buddhist

55. Richness 205 I schools, but no extensive explanation of the Ching seems to have been 56. Travel 208

written by a Buddhist until Chih-hsu Ou-i composed the present work in

57. Wind 211 the seventeenth century.

58. Delight 214 When Buddhism came into China, it picked up certain key phrases from

59. Dispersal 217 the Chinese classics to put forth its message in the local idiom. Among the

60. Regulation 220 classics Buddhists drew from was, naturally, the I Ching. Eleventh-century

61. Sincerity in the Center 222 Ch'an Buddhists used well-known lines referring to effective adaptation, an

62. Small Excess 226 axial Buddhist theme. Taoist reading of the I Ching is especially marked in 63. Settled 230

the Ch'an-like Treatise on the Avatamsaka Sutra by the lay adept Li T'ung-

64. Unsettled 233

hsuan. The celebrated "Five Ranks" device of the ninth-century Ts'ao Tung

(Sett)) school of Ch'an was in some texts illustrated by trigrams and hexa-

Key for Identifying the Hexagrams 237 grams from the I Ching, and this association was much elaborated by the

Soto Zen monks of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.

1 am not aware, however, of any text, before or since this one by Ou-i, that

treats the I Ching in a systematic way from the point of view of Buddhist

teaching and practice. Ch'an masters of the classic era seldom did systematic

explanations of any text, but in the postclassical periods of Ch'an in China

and other East Asian nations, there were people who combined scholarship

with meditation and used their experience to elucidate not only Buddhist

texts of all schools, but also classics of Confucianism and Taoism.

This sort of activity always seems to be heightened in pitch during times

of degradation in the general tone of the civilization's consciousness, perhaps

' Translator's Introduction ix S INTRODUCTION

viii TRANSLATOR



coinciding with relaxation or with crisis. Generally, the later teachers wrote three or four careers, and like Nasruddin knew the local conqueror of his

much more than the earlier teachers. We usually have only hints of the co- ti me, one of the Ashikaga shoguns.

lossal inner and outer learning of the ancients; of the learning of the later It would seem that one of the concerns of the time, therefore, was the

teachers, who also had more to study, we have evidence of intellectual effort "deposit" of knowledge that would allow humankind to survive in the fu-

that would be staggering by standards common today. In the case of Ou-i, as ture. Geniuses everywhere from Europe to East Asia seem to have deposited

with other great Buddhists who took up scholarship, this was done as a part part of that knowledge right in the infrastructures of conflict (such as the

of religious practice, linking personal efforts with needs of the contempo- martial arts), and then moved to balance this by developing culture to a high

pitch. Thus we find great developments in liturgy, music, art, scholarship,

rary society.

The Ming dynasty was one such time of stress in China. The dynasty had and literature, often carried out by the same person or group. This whole

started in the fourteenth century as a revolt against the Mongolian Yuan process itself illustrates u principle of the I Ching, whereby waxing and wan-

dynasty and ended in total overthrow by the Manchu Ch'ing dynasty in the ing balance each other.

mid-seventeenth century. During that time there were many civil wars, in- There seems to be a general consensus among Buddhist writers that in-

cluding numerous revolts led by Buddhist societies. There seem to have been stitutional Buddhism was in a severe decline in the Ming dynasty. Ou-i him-

very few creative, progressive leaders in the secular world, and intellectual self, commenting on the typical forms of degeneration among the various

growth was threatened by the imposition of institutionalized orthodoxy. branches of Buddhist study, cites widespread ignorance, hypocrisy, and

Though the upstart founder of the Ming dynasty had himself been a Bud- empty imitation as characteristic flaws of contemporary Buddhist clergy.

dhist monk, as he gained support among established sectors of society, he This situation naturally created problems for those who sincerely tried to

began to withdraw from his associations with the Buddhist order, particu- pursue Buddhist studies in a monastic context, but on the other hand it

seems to have further stimulated Buddhist thinkers from a cloistered en-

larly the yao-seng, or charismatic monks, who had considerable influence on

a popular level and often brandished revolutionary visions. Attempts to con- vironment to reach out into secular life, continuing a trend strongly marked

trol the clergy, particularly to control contact between the clergy and the in the earlier Sung and Yuan dynasties.

populace, played an important role in the development of the forms of in- The story of Qu-i's own life appears to be one of great struggle and effort,

stitutionalized Buddhism in this transition period between the postclassical plagued by the difficulties of finding good teachers and companions in the

and modern eras of Chinese Buddhism. Buddhist world. He wrote of himself that he did not have a fixed teacher,

The face of religion was changing, it seemed, or different phases of religion but tried to learn from everyone; eventually he read through the entire Bud-

were becoming visible. The Chinese Buddhists accepted Tibetan tantrism, dhist canon, like others in similar positions, and attempted to extract the

and the powerful Complete Reality Taoists seemed to take up some of the essence from all of the Buddhist teachings. Though he had no such institu-

ancient ways of Taoist tantrism. When the great T'ang dynasty was flourish- tional affiliation, Ou-i is commonly thought of as an outstanding latter-day

ing centuries before the Ming, tantric texts giving formulae for killing unjust exponent of T'ien-t'ai Buddhism, the great syncretic school of Chinese Bud-

kings were suppressed or changed, but in the Ming dynasty civilian armies dhism combining study and exercise.

rallied their personal attention and group solidarity around religious ideals, Ou-i's early exposure to Buddhism was, of course, through his cultural

such as the coming of Maitreya, the future Buddha, as they fought to over- and family environment. Like most literate Chinese men, however, he de-

throw what they perceived as corrupt and oppressive "government." voted his early studies to Confucianism, in preparation for possible advance-

A similar phenomenon occurred in Japan about this time, with the well- ment through the civil service examination system. At the age of twelve he

organized Pure Land and Sun Lotus Buddhist movements in the midst of the was already writing anti-Buddhist essays, a Confucian fashion that he seems

Warring States period of medieval Japan assuming both temporal and spiri- later to have regretted very deeply.

tual functions. In the Near East, the military organization known as the Jan- A climax to Ou-i's Confucian studies was reached when he was twenty

issaries was established, it is said, with the blessing of Sufi Hajji Bektash, years old, while he was writing a commentary on the Lun-yu or Analects of

revered as a saint by both Christians and Muslims. In Central Asia, the great Confucius, one of the basic classics. According to his own account, he became

conqueror Tamerlane, who like the Ming Chinese took up after the Jinggisid stuck on the expression "The whole world takes to benevolence" and was

Mongols, was at once a relentless warrior and reveler, and a great patron of unable to think of anything else for three days and nights. Finally he ex-

perienced a mental opening and suddenly "understood the psychology of

arts, sciences, and religions. He is said to have known Nasruddin, the Sufi

Confucius."

counterpart of lkkyu, the medieval Japanese Zen master who had at least

x Translator's Introduction xi TRANSLATOR'S INTRODUCTION



At that time, the orthodox school of Confucianism was the Ch'eng-chu accomplished. Be that as it may, when Ou-i subsequently began to study

school, a relic of the Sung dynasty, and like everyone aiming for a career in esoteric tantric Buddhism in earnest and learned of the strict requirements

civil service through the official examination system, Ou-i began his studies of mantraydna (to prevent the strengthening of bad qualities as well as good

in this school. Eventually, however, he came to prefer the new school of ones), he ceased to practice or encourage incantation, save incantation of the

Wang Yang-ming whose doctrines and methods were strongly name of the Buddha of Compassion. (1472-1528),

influenced by Buddhism. After his awakening to the psychology of Con- Also during his thirties, Ou-i suffered the final failure of his attempt to

fucius and following his interest in Wang Yang-ming's psychological Confu- revive orthodox vinaya practice in China and at length even renounced his

cianism, Ou-i now began to practice Ch'an Buddhist meditation. ordination, regarding it as technically illegitimate. He turned his attention to

Ou-i's early attempts at meditation were not fruitful, and he consequently the Mahayana vinaya in the Brahmajdla Sutra, and, at the age of thirty-nine,

began to think that he would have to become a renunciate in order to suc- while lecturing on this sutra, he experienced another great realization. Ac-

ceed in his new spiritual endeavor. He thus became a Buddhist monk in his cording to his account, he now saw that all the doctrinal differences among

early twenties and once again set himself to the practice of meditation, using Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism were due to the fact that these teach-

ings were nothing more than temporary means.

the Surangama Sutra as a guide to handling the mental states that may arise

during concentrated meditation. Finally, at the age of forty-six, under the impact of another serious illness,

This time Ou-i obtained dramatic results from meditation. In his autobio- Ou-i again reevaluated his Buddhist practice and decided to devote himself

graphical notes he records that he felt that his "body, mind, and world all to Pure Land Buddhism. An outstanding characteristic of Pure Land Bud-

disappeared." Subsequently, he continues, all the scriptures and kung-an dhism is that it promises salvation through the simple invocation of a Buddha-

(Ch'an Buddhist teaching stories) became obvious to him. Nevertheless, he name, regardless of other conditions. For Ou-i, intensely aware of both the

says, he did not consider this the "enlightenment of sages," and did not tell temporal and the spiritual malaise of his time, personally burdened with a

anyone about it. sense of guilt for his early repudiation of Buddhism, chronically unhealthy

Several years later, at the age of twenty-eight, Ou-i fell seriously ill and in and often ill, and moreover regretful at having lost opportunities for per-

the midst of his life-and-death crisis found that his early realization was of sonal cultivation because of his scholarly activities, to enter into Pure Land

no practical use to him. He then added the Buddha-name recitation practice devotion would seem to be almost a matter of course. Ten years later he

of the T'ien-t'ai and Pure Land schools to his Ch'an meditation practice. He passed away, leaving a rarely matched legacy of Buddhist scholarship.

had been interested in Buddha-name recitation since his early twenties, and Considering the fact that Ou-i was in poor health almost all of his life, and

was sometimes very ill for extended periods of time, his enormous literary

it was also fashionable in his time to combine silent and incantational

output appears all the more incredible. In his teen years, when he began to

meditation.

Still later, at the age of thirty-one, Ou-i met the distinguished Ch'an mas- write anti-Buddhist essays and Confucian commentaries, he is said to have

ter Po-shan Yuan-lai composed over two thousand tracts, so his literary talents were apparently (1575-1630). Yuan-lai explained to him the various

characteristics of the progressive deterioration of Ch'an practice in their time, quite considerable even at this early age. He later burned all of these essays,

and this prompted Ou-i to give up Ch'an altogether. Now he began to con- so we have no idea of the state of mind of the young Ou-i, but his later work

centrate intensely on Pure Land practice, restoration of the vinaya ( monastic clearly demonstrates a formidable knowledge of Confucianism.

orders), and exposition of classic Buddhist scriptures and treatises. Aside from some miscellaneous works—letters, prayers, essays on Ch'an-

he did not begin his Buddhist writings in earnest until he was nearly forty

During his thirties, Ou-i took up the practice of mantraydna, the vehicle of

mystic spells. Among the various spells he is known to have recited, the one years old. By the end of his life—which was short in comparison with many

to which he devoted the most effort was the spell of Ksitigarbha, the bodhi- other noted Buddhist teachers—he had composed over seventy-five works

sattva associated with the salvation of those in hell. This spell is particularly in some two hundred and fifty volumes.

focused on absolution, and Ou-i notes that he recited it approximately forty About fifty of these works still exist, including a comprehensive guide to

the Buddhist canon, useful compendia of major Buddhist systems, com-

million times over a period of ten years.

It is recorded in Buddhist lore that mantrayanic practice is often associ- mentaries on Buddhist sutras and sdstras, and interpretations of several na-

ated with the development of extraordinary linguistic and mnemic skills, tive Chinese classics, including this work on the I Ching.

and it may have been this decade of intense spell concentration that enabled Chinese Buddhism in the Ming dynasty inherited a twofold tradition:

Ou-i to perform the tremendous feats of scholarship that he subsequently there were the Chinese schools that had arisen between the fourth and



xii TRANSLATOR ' xiii S INTRODUCTION Translator's Introduction



eighth centuries, and the Tibetan schools that entered under the Yuan dy- The upper course of the I Ching starts with The Creative and The

nasty Mongolian rule during the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. The Receptive, and ends with Water (Multiple Danger) and Fire. These

old schools of Chinese Buddhism had more or less amalgamated by the are symbols of heaven, earth, sun, and moon. They also represent

the qualities of calm and awareness, concentration and insight.

Ming dynasty, depending on the type of practitioner—there were vinaya

This course deals with the beginning and end of inherent qualities.

specialists, sutra and sdstra specialists, and Yoga specialists, the latter includ-

The lower course starts with Sensing and Constancy, and ends

ing those reputed to have various kinds of ordinary and occult knowledge,

with Settled and Unsettled. These are symbols of sensing and re-

generally working among the people. sponse, getting through impasses. They are also symbols of poten-

The newer Tibetan schools apparently began to influence the Chinese tial and teaching calling on one another, benefiting people in all

when Tibet and China were both absorbed into the Mongolian Empire. The ti mes. This deals with the beginning and end of cultivated qualities.

Ming dynasty was a native Chinese breakaway from Mongol rule, which Also, the upper course begins with the inherent qualities of Cre-

maintained its own diplomatic relations with other nations, as many as ativity and Receptivity, and ends with the cultivated qualities of

thirty-three under the famous Yung-lo Emperor Ch'eng-tsu (r. 1403-1424), Water and Fire. This is the fulfillment of cause and result of one's

who was in contact with the Karmapa, a high incarnate lama of Tibet. own practice.

Under the native Chinese Ming dynasty, therefore, the connection be- The lower course begins with the potential and teaching of

Sensing and Constancy, and ends with the endlessness of being

tween Tibetan and Chinese schools of Buddhism continued, marked by an

Settled and Unsettled. This is the fulfillment of the subject and ob-

increasing emphasis on ritual, prostration, and incantation practices. While

ject involved in education and enlightenment of others.

the general form of Chinese Buddhist practice showed Tibetan influence,

This is the general point of the two parts of the I Ching.

however, the contents of its rituals were taken not from the Indian esoteric

tradition through the Tibetan or even the Chinese esoteric canon, but mainly The inherent qualities Ou-i speaks of are the natural qualities of buddha-

from the liturgy of the T'ien-t'ai school, which had been formulated for the nature, the complete potential of awareness; cultivated qualities are develop-

Chinese from Buddhist scriptures centuries before, in the Sui, Tang, and ments of the various facets of inherent qualities, bringing them to full matu-

Sung dynasties, from the late sixth to early eleventh century. rity and putting them to appropriate use. Thus inherent qualities and culti-

Ou-i was therefore very unusual among native Chinese Buddhists in hav- vated qualities are the same in essence but distinct in practice.

ing actually read the esoteric canon existing in the Chinese language. Never- In T'ien-t'ai Buddhist terms, this is the unity and distinction of funda-

theless, he finally concluded that the living tradition of Tantra was no longer mental enlightenment and initial enlightenment. This is the teaching that all

available in China (travel was difficult and limited in Ou-i's time, due to civil beings have the buddha-nature, or potential for awakening to reality, but it

and international unrest in many areas) and this led to his decision to aban- usually cannot be fully expressed or used without deliberate cultivation.

don Mantrayana, except for the name of Amitabha Buddha, the Buddha of A refinement of this idea is the doctrine of successive stages coexisting

Infinite Light, the embodiment of compassion. The practice of reciting this with an underlying unity or continuity. Using the T'ien-t'ai model, Ou-i

name had been openly offered in sutras and sdstras since time immemorial, provisionally distinguishes six stages of initial enlightenment into funda-

and because it was associated with pure compassion, it could be considered mental enlightenment.

the least dangerous of all mantras. This was the mantra, in fact, of the first The first stage might be termed ideal enlightenment, where ideal means

native Chinese school, the Pure Land school founded by the great scholar something that is so in principle or in ultimate truth, but not yet in mani-

and visionary Hui-yuan (334-416), originator of the first Lotus Society. fest fact.

Furthermore, Ou-i found an esoteric plane in the work of the great Sung The second stage might be called intellectual enlightenment. This is the

dynasty T'ian-t'ai writer Ssu-ming (960-1028), who revived the school stage of intellectual awareness of this ideal or ultimate potential of Bud-

eight generations after the last great master, Chan-jan (711-782). Ou-i dhahood. At this stage the intellectual awareness comes through concepts,

made Ssu-ming ' through reading, hearing, and thinking. s work one of his main sources on liturgy and ritual, and he

also commonly used T'ien-t'ai terminology in dealing with other forms of The third stage is that of contemplative practice, an intensification and pu-

meditation and other Buddhist practices as well. rification of the thinking process, also including transcendence of thought

This is certainly true of his commentary on the itself. As is well known, there are countless methods of contemplative prac- I Ching, translated in the

present volume, and it is therefore useful to note certain recurring key tice in Buddhism, and according to Buddhist teaching principles there is a

terms. A general outline can first be glimpsed in Ou-i's own explanation of great deal of individual difference in what methods are effective when and

for whom. In this reading of the I Ching, Ou-i is concerned not so much

the overall structure of the I Ching:

xiv Translator's Introduction xv TRANSLATOR'S INTRODUCTION



with specific techniques as with their generic types and their place in the ordinary experience, where both the enlightened and the unenlightened

overall pattern of the practitioner's life. live together. Next is the land of expedient liberation, the realm of release

The fourth stage can be called the stage of conformity or resemblance and from worldly cares. Though taken by some as a life-long refuge, it is more

represents a development of contemplative practices to a point where they widely visited as an expedient curative, to enable people to work more effi-

become, as it were, second nature. It is traditionally defined as the stage ciently in the world of common presence.

where the six senses are purified. This stage might be called the clearing of The land of expedient liberation is only hearsay for most in the land of

the channels for the next stages. common presence, but elements from the land of common presence are also

The fifth stage is that of partial realization, when the purification of the present to greater and lesser degrees in the land of expedient liberation.

senses accomplished in the preceding stage allows the buddha-nature, the Beyond the land of expedient release is the land of true reward, the purified

enlightenment potential, to begin penetrating the veil of illusion and reveal vision and knowledge of the enlightened in any world. In Buddhist terms, this

new perspectives and possibilities. is the revelation of the matrix, or mine, of awareness of being as is.

The sixth stage is that of ultimate realization, representing the full expres- According to one way of looking at Buddhism, the land of expedient liber-

sion of the inherent essence of conscious being, with all of its faculties being ation is the ultimate goal of the so-called Hinayana, or Small Vehicle prac-

continually developed and tuned to an infinite and ever expanding reality. tice, while the land of true reward is the proximate goal of the so-called Ma-

Two of the most important terms Ou-i uses in the context of Buddhist hayana, or Great Vehicle practice.

interpretation are concentration and insight. As practices, these properly be- Scripture suggests that those in the land of expedient release may or may

long to the third of the sixth stages mentioned above, but according to T'ien- not hear of the land of true reward, and if they hear of it, they may or may

t'ai theory, they are also natural qualities of consciousness that can be re- not believe in it or seek it. On the other hand, the land of expedient release is

stored and maintained by cultivation. Furthermore, a proper understanding seen as a sort of border territory by those in the land of true reward, a pu-

of concentration and insight is also considered important, to assist in the all- rifying but beguiling region inwardly passed through on the way to the so-

i mportant balancing of these two fundamental aspects of Buddhist use of called land of treasure, the realm of full awareness.

mind. Finally, originally and always, there is said to be a land of eternal silent

Concentration and insight may be thought of in association with calmness light, perhaps the essence of consciousness itself, always peaceful, always

and contemplation. The concentration and calmness empower the con- aware, forever quietly penetrating all the worlds in the other three lands.

templation and insight, while the contemplation and insight make the con- Glimpses of this are said to appear in all realms, and while beings are thought

centration and calmness meaningful. Thus it is said that both concentration to enter into it completely only after death, it is paradoxically by cultivating

and insight may be right, wrong, or unstable; and a critical element in that contact with this subtle plane that, it is believed, beings can transcend death

question is measure and proportion. This seems to be the primary function in some way.

of the The theme of progress through stages of enlightenment and realms of ex- I Ching as presented by Ou-i for evaluating Buddhist practice.

Concentration and insight are not, of course, simply items of "Buddhist perience to final remergence with eternal silent light may be taken to repre-

practice." Whatever people may do, the degree and quality of concentration sent a kind of life cycle from a certain point of view. Again using the con-

and insight they bring to bear in their thoughts and acts directly affect the cepts of inherent and cultivated qualities, this cycle begins and ends in

results. Put simply, concentration without insight leads to persistent blun- inherent qualities, through the medium of cultivated qualities. In the first

dering, while insight without concentration leads to lack of will. And when half of Ou-i's commentary on the I Ching, he gives sociopolitical, Buddhist,

insight is partial or biased, and concentration shades off into obsession and and meditational readings, according to the situation; in the second half,

fanaticism, the results are correspondingly distorted. So it seems only natu- dealing with themes of cultivated qualities and public education, he gener-

ral that Ou-i would find the basic ally uses structural concepts of native I Ching tradition to explain human I Ching desirables of centeredness, balance,

and correctness to be in perfect accord with the Middle Way teaching of development through interaction.

T'ien-t'ai Buddhism. As is well known, the I Ching is based on sixty-four hexagrams, or six-line

Finally, in speaking of realms of experience from a T'ien-t'ai Buddhist signs, each one representing a specific configuration of relationships. These

point of view, Ou-i uses the concept of four lands. These four lands always designs have been used for thousands of years to analyze all sorts of situa-

interpenetrate one another in some way, but they are not necessarily visible tions and project the results of particular attitudes and behaviors in response

to given conditions.

or accessible to one another at all times.

The first, "lowest" land is that land of common presence, the world of The fundamental terms of relationship in the I Ching system, yin and xvi S INTRODUCTION xvii

TRANSLATOR ' Translator's Introduction



yang, are so familiar that they may well be considered naturalized English This difference naturally affects any translation, and the present text is no

words. In my earlier translation, The Taoist I Ching (Boston: Shambhala, exception. Not only is the text and commentary different from my earlier

1986), I presented a summary of yin and yang associations. There is such a Taoist I Ching, but the translation of certain portions of the common text are

basic kinship between Taoism and Buddhism, plus a close historical rela- also necessarily different. Ou-i's text includes the early Confucian commen-

tionship over nearly two millennia, that there is considerable confluence taries, here labeled "Overall Judgment" and "Image." The Confucian appen-

even of terminology, much more of meaning underlying terminology. dices are also included in Ou-i's text, along with his commentary, but I have

In The Buddhist 1 Ching, yin and yang commonly stand for concentration omitted them from this already lengthy volume, as they present a separate

and insight, thought-stopping and thought-cultivating exercises, but they can study.

also mean weakness and strength, ignorance and knowledge, inaction and Since the publication of The Taoist I Ching, numbers of people have con-

action, and similar qualities that interact in opposition and complementarity. veyed to me news of the usefulness of that reading. Thanks in that case are

The relations among and between the yin and yang elements of a situa- due to Liu I-ming, the reader, and his teachers. Here I express the hope that

tional process may be perceived variously by readers. They may be indicated The Buddhist I Ching, by another extraordinary reader, will also be of use to

by the proximity of one line to another, the position of one line in the whole other readers.

hexagram, or the correspondence between two lines in the same relative In the future I plan to complete this series with a simplified translation of

position in their respective trigrams. the reading of Ch'eng I, the eleventh-century Neo-Confucian who helped to

Proximity usually means relations with immediate neighbors. Position revive social studies in his time by incorporating elements of Buddhism and

may be described in reference to the whole hexagram or to the two trigrams Taoism and using their educational methods in studying history. Put simply,

that make it up. The first and fourth positions, which correspond to the bot- this reading is on the Tao of organization and applies to groups, whether

tom of the bottom trigram and the bottom of the top trigram, are generally they be companies or countries.

referred to as positions of weakness, lowliness, and beginnings. The third The final volume will be a manual on the diagrammatic explanations of

and top lines, corresponding to the top of the bottom trigram and the top of the I Ching, which seems to have appeared in public among the Taoists in

the top trigram, are often referred to as positions of strength, excess, and the Sung dynasty (960-1276). Said to have been secretly transmitted since

culmination. The second and fifth lines have special significance as positions the time of the Magicians of the Han dynasty, in the time of the Roman Cae-

of balance, being in the center of their trigrams; of these, the fifth, in the sars, it presents a number of I Ching reading systems that can be used for a

upper trigram, has the "position of honor," the leadership. number of purposes. It is my hope that these readings and diagrams will

Correspondence refers to the relation of corresponding lines: the first with enhance the use and enjoyment of all the translations and adaptations of the

the fourth, the second with the fifth, the third with the top. Of special impor- I Ching available in English today, as all of them bring something more from

tance is the relation between the second and fifth. With but one exception, it is this inexhaustible classic of ancient China.

considered best for correspondents to be complementary opposites.

Correspondence is not, moreover, on an equal basis. Thinking in terms of

an organization or a society, the upper and lower trigrams in a hexagram

represent the upper and lower echelons. Nevertheless, position is always

relative, so the second position can represent the highest administrative

rank, subordinate only to the leader in the fifth place.

Different patterns of analysis from among the many available may be in-

voked by different readers at the same time, or by the same reader at differ-

ent times; and this is one of the reasons for the richness of the secondary

and tertiary literature on the I Ching.

Such is the importance of the reader in the I Ching consultation, and the

choice of specific procedures and analytic designs, that this influence carries

all the way back to the original text. The core text of the 1 Ching is so old, the

language so archaic, that it admits of often widely divergent readings. At

ti mes a character may even be read not merely in multiple meanings, but as

one character or another, each with its own meanings.

Using the Buddhist I Ching xix



4: Energy

5: Meditation

Top line: Wisdom



Using Now, as you read the text, do not pause over doubts and questions, but The Buddhist I Ching note the various meanings of yin and yang: concentration and insight, soft-

ness and hardness, flexibility and firmness, restraint and action, receptivity

and creativity, withdrawing and advancing, yielding and proceeding, essence

and function, and so on. Read the whole text as many times as necessary to

get a general idea of the system. Note that there will be many lists like the

above. Pay special attention to the text and commentaries of the first two

The Buddhist 1 Ching has a number of uses. It links spiritual life with social hexagrams, as they are the parents of all the hexagrams.

life, and it describes inner dynamics of both spiritual life and social life. After obtaining some familiarity with the imagery and terminology of the

Thus it could be used to understand something about Buddhism. It could text, readers may use these associations of yin and yang in relative positions

be used to understand how particular conditions or situations might be as models to analyze an individual, a group, a practice, a situation, an event.

understood and dealt with in a Buddhist light. Try choosing the model that seems most fitting; note the values of yin and

In terms of this commentary, it has to do with the cultivation of inherent yang you use. Then observe the changes as you look up the hexagrams

qualities that enable the human being to realize maximum potential, so it is formed by your choices and compare one possibility with another. Note

not always necessary to talk about Buddhism or enlightenment. those lines that fit into your scheme and those that do not on an impartial

One description of this commentary is that it is designed to lead soci- basis, because both contain valuable material. Since yin and yang are inter-

ologists into an understanding of meditation, and lead meditators into an dependent, it is also useful to consult the antithesis of any hexagram you

understanding of society. generate, and to consult the hexagram generated by substituting the antithe-

In Buddhist terms, this commentary uses several sets of six to associate sis of any line of particular interest.

with the lines of the hexagrams. Consider these sets: For traditional programs designed to facilitate sophisticated in-depth

analysis using the I Ching and to guide study for I Ching expertise, see my

First line: Ideal, potential forthcoming rendering of I Ching mandalas, to be published by Shambhala

2: Intellectual understanding of ideal or potential Publications. These mandalas can be used with any tradition and any trans-

3: Meditation on ideal or potential, initiation of actions lation of the I Ching, including this Buddhist I Ching.

4: Intimations of awakening, effects of practices

5: Realizations

Top line: Ultimate realization, not remaining static



First line: Beginning of worldliness

2: Meditation in the world yet pure, seeing reality

3: Meditation in the world and beyond the world

4: Meditation beyond the world

5: Meditation neither in nor beyond the world

Top line: End of tasting meditation



First line: Generosity

2: Self-discipline

3: Tolerance



How to Consult the 1 Ching xxi



gram has changed into its opposite. That is, the 6's (yin lines) become 9's

(yang lines), and the 9's become 6's. Thus, in our example:



Original New

Hexagram Hexagram



How to Consult the I Ching 20. Observing 31. Sensing

9 0 6

7 7

6 —x— 9

6 —x— 9



A simple method of consulting the 8 - - 8 I Ching entails the use of three U.S. pen-

nies. This is the method described here. Readers wishing to follow the more 8 - - 8

traditional methods using yarrow sticks or Chinese coins are referred to the

This new hexagram represents a further development or amplification of

Wilhelm/Baynes translation of the I Ching, published by Princeton Univer-

the situation about which you are consulting the I Ching. For your second

sity Press (Bollingen Series).

hexagram, you would consult the main text only, not the lines.

After formulating your question, toss the three pennies on a flat surface.

Notate the tosses according to the following system, in which tails has a

value of 2 and heads a value of 3:



2 tails, 1 heads = 7 yang (solid line)

2 heads, 1 tails = 8 - - yin (broken line)

3 tails = 6 —x— yin (moving line)

3 heads yang (moving line) = 9 —e—



Cast the pennies six times in all, and write your notations in a column.

Your first toss will be the first line, starting from the bottom. For example:



top line (last toss): 3 heads = 9 —e

fifth line: 2 tails, 1 heads = 7 upper trigram

fourth line: 3 tails = 6 —x

third line: 3 tails = 6 —x

second line: 2 heads, 1 tails lower trigram 8

first line: 2 heads, 1 tails = 8



Identify the hexagram by consulting the key at the back of this book. In

this case, we have received Hexagram 20, Observing.

The next step is to read the text for your hexagram, up until the section

covering the numbered lines. If your hexagram contains only 7's and 8's, you

do not read any further. If it contains any moving lines—6's and 9's—you

also read the text pertaining to those particular lines. Thus, in our example,

we would read the text for the third, fourth, and top lines.

When your hexagram contains moving lines, you can then receive a new

hexagram—one in which each of the moving lines of your original hexa -

The Buddhist I Ching



1. Heaven



heaven below, heaven above



The creative is successful; this is beneficial if correct.



Heaven is strength. In the sky it is the sun; in the earth it is firmness. In

people it is knowledge and duty. In the essence of mind it is awareness. In

spiritual practice it is observation.

Also, in the material world it is what covers. In the physical body it is the

head, the higher ruler. In the family it is the head of the household. In a

country it is the king; in an empire it is the emperor.

Some interpret this in terms of the Tao of nature, some in terms of the Tao

of government. Either way is biased, for it only brings out one aspect.

When strong, acts are uninhibited, so "the creative is successful." But it is

necessary to see what it is that is made strong; this warning, that it is bene-

ficial only if correct, is considered by sages very important to learning. It

tells about practicing the Tao.

Strength in doing evil results in hellish, animalistic, or ghostlike exis-

tence. Strength in doing good results in power, social order, or heavenly

states of mind. When cultivation of meditation is added to strength in the

best ways of doing good, this results in existence on the plane of pure form,

or even formlessness.

Strength in the best ways of doing good, added to understanding of hu-

man suffering and the process of conditioning, plus action to free oneself

from bondage, results in personal liberation.

Those who are strong in the highest virtues, and are able to liberate others

as well as themselves, are called enlightening beings.

Those who are strong in the highest virtues, and realize that virtues are

identical with the realm of reality and buddhahood, will complete unsur-

passed enlightenment.

Thus all realms of existence are results of the success of creation. Some are

bad, some are good. Even some good states are still contaminated; only the

liberated are uncontaminated. But even the personally liberated are wrong if

they become complacent.

When it comes to helping others and self together, expedient means deal-

ing with either affirmation or negation are not ultimately correct, but should

give way to the perfect central balance of the realm of the enlightened.

Yet to define center and extremes as disparate is still not correct. One

should realize that everything is poised between being and nonbeing.

This is why the admonition "beneficial if correct" should be given to

people who act with strength.





W-




2 THE BUDDHIST I CHING I. Heaven 3



■ civilization. Unless they regretted arrogance, few people in positions of First yang: The hidden dragon is not to be employed.

power would avoid becoming tyrants and aggressors.

A dragon can be great or small, can shrink or expand. Therefore it is used to



symbolize a quality of Heaven. In the beginning it is a dragon, to be sure, but Interpreting the six lines of Heaven in terms of Buddhism, a dragon is some-

because it is at the bottom, it is best to conceal it and not employ it. This

thing that has spiritual capacity and adaptive creativity—a metaphor for the

refers to discovering great potential, yet working quietly and unassumingly

buddha-nature.

to develop it inwardly.

In the stage where Buddhahood is an abstract ideal, an inherent possibil-



■ 2 yang: Seeing the dragon in the field; it is beneficial problems, so it "is not to be employed"—it cannot be used. ity but not yet an actualized fact, the buddha-nature is covered by personal

to see a great person.

In the stage of intellectual understanding of this ideal essence, one should

go to see teachers; therefore "it is beneficial to see a great person."

At first it was'ike an abyss, here it is like a field—one's position at a particu-

In the stage where one practices meditations to actualize the buddha-

lar time may be different, but the dragon is not different. Here the text

nature, one should continuously direct one's vitality to advancing in this ex-

speaks of a great person, and in the next stage it speaks of a leader; these are

ercise, so one "works by day and is wary at night."

people who can be like a dragon.

In the stage where one conforms to buddha-nature, one does not hold



■ religious attachment, an imitative path, and so one "may leap in the abyss."

3 yang: A leader works all day and is wary at night.

In the stage of partial realization, one is revealed as an illuminate and

There is danger, but no error.

benefits all creatures; such a one is beneficial to see.

This is a dangerous position, in which there is strength but great responsibil- In the stage of ultimate realization, one does not enter into ultimate lib-

ity. Therefore one must work all day and still remain wary at night. This eration, but shares in the flow of all worlds. Therefore it is said that there is

means not forgetting danger when secure, like one in command who never- regret.

theless is humble and circumspect. Speaking solely in terms of cultivating inner qualities, yang is the quality

of knowledge; this is the practice of insight. The infertile insight of begin-

■ ners needs concentration to balance it—it should not be used alone. 4 yang: One may leap in the abyss. No error.

The second line t °presents harmonization of concentration and insight,

In the beginning, where action is proscribed, the dragon is in a deep abyss. whereby one can see the buddha-nature; therefore it says, "it is beneficial to

Now, at the fourth stage, it is again in the abyss. Why? In the beginning it see a great person."

hid; now it leaps. The forces of the times are not the same, but the appear- In the third stage one uses insight to observe all things.

ances are temporarily the same. This is like a ruler abdicating, or an official In the fourth stage one uses concentration to nurture potential.

being lenient; it means retreating in order to advance. In the fifth stage correct insight into central balance witnesses the design

of reality.

■ 5 yang: The flying dragon is in the sky. It is beneficial At the peak, the characteristics of knowledge and insight cannot be ap-

to see great people. prehended, cannot be grasped.

Speaking in terms of effectiveness, the bottom line represents shallow in-

What flies is what had leaped, what had been wary, what had become sight, not to be used; the top line represents intellect exceeding concentra-

visible, what had hidden. Unless you are like this, you can hardly be called a tion, also not to be used. The four lines in between all represent subtle in-

great person. If you are a great person, all you see are great people. This is sight: the second is like opening up enlightened knowledge and vision, the

like the noninvasive government of enlightened leaders. third is like showing enlightened knowledge and vision, the fourth is like

awakening to enlightened knowledge and vision, and the fifth is like pene-

■ Top yang: At the peak, the dragon has regret. trating enlightened knowledge and vision.



The peak is the culmination of the configuration of power of a time. "Regret"

is the way to deal with arrogance. This is like when an ancient sage leader

won over an unruly tribe by performing dances representing warfare and

4 1. Heaven 5 THE BUDDHIST I CHING

Greatly understanding end and beginning, and how the six

Using yang, you see a group of headless dragons;

stages are accomplished in the appropriate time, at the right

this is auspicious.

ti me one rides the six dragons to direct nature.

In Buddhist terms, this means using flexible insight, not inflexible intellect.

This passage illustrates how sages harmonize with the essence of life by

When yang moves, it changes to yin; this represents how insight must be

practice, so that their self-development is completed.

accompanied by concentration. The Flower Ornament Scripture says, "Knowl-

edge comprehending objects is the same as concentration." Zen Master Ta Sages see the beginning of things, so they can see the end already in the

beginning. They know that the true nature of beginnings derives from their

Hui said, "Once enlightened, you are at peace."

The "group of dragons" means the three contemplations exercised to ends, and that beginning and end are one pattern, yet because of temporal

conditions there is a division into six stages.

awaken three kinds of knowledge. These are the three contemplations and

three knowledges that everything is interdependent, nothing exists alone; When one attains the six stages, they are all one pattern; so every stage

has "dragon" qualities, whereby it is possible to direct nature.

that while nothing therefore exists in and of itself, nevertheless things do

"Nature" means intrinsic qualities; only with accomplishment in cultivat-

exist, conditionally; and that because of this nature of things, everything is

ing these qualities do intrinsic qualities become apparent. Therefore it is

always in between being and nonbeing.

called directing nature.

Contemplation and knowledge are impossible to define, ontologically or

epistemologically; they cannot be found through forms, cannot be dis-

The transformations of the path of heaven each correct nature

cerned by conditioned cognition. This is the meaning of "headless" which is

and life, preserving unity with universal harmony; so it is

auspicious.

beneficial to be correct.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: How great is the creativity of heaven! This passage explains the words "beneficial" and "correct," to illustrate how

All things originate from it, so it sums up nature. essential qualities are originally fluid and pervasive. This means that all re-

Clouds move, rain falls, beings form a concrete flow. turns to the realm of realities.

All beings originate from the creativity of Heaven, so all are transforma-

This is the judgment attributed to Confucius, interpreting the statement of tions of the path of Heaven. Being transformations of the path of Heaven,

King Wen on the hexagram. The method of interpreting King Wen's judg- each has the great function of the whole body of the path of' Heaven, and is

ments is varied: sometimes Confucius elucidates inner dimensions of King not just a small portion of the effective capacity of Heaven. Therefore they

Wen's sayings, sometimes he points out King Wen's unspoken messages; can each correct nature and life.

sometimes he borrows King Wen's statements to bring out his own approach Every being contains the totality of the path of Heaven and can preserve

and express another subtle meaning. unity with universal harmony. Every being contains the function of origina-

Now, in the case of the hexagrams Heaven and Earth, Confucius either tion from the creativity of Heaven. This is what is referred to by the saying "It

brings out his own approach or points out an unspoken message. This pas- is beneficial to be correct."

sage interprets the two words "creative" and "successful" to illustrate the

wonder of the spontaneity of inherent qualities. That is to say, all things With the emergence of true leaders, all nations have peace.

come from the realm of realities.

The qualities of Heaven cannot be all told, but creativity sums them up. This passage illustrates how the enlightened freely help others after they

The quality of creativity is indescribable, but it can be witnessed in the ori- have cultivated their own qualities to perfection.

gination of all things. The sum of nature means from origination to ending. In this whole tradition on the I Ching, Confucius borrowed the words

The movement of clouds, the disbursal of rain, and the formation of be- used to interpret the judgments of the lines to elucidate the science of non-

ings into a concrete flow are all functions of the quality of creativity. This duality of essence and practice, nature and culture.

refers to the success or development of what originates. Heaven represents the buddha-nature, the essence of enlightenment, pow-

erful and indomitable. Creativity, success, benefit, and correctness represent

the four inherent qualities of the nature of enlightenment—eternity, hap-

piness, selfhood, and purity.

1. Heaven 7

6 THE BUDDHIST I CHING

ture of mind itself. Originally it is because it proceeds ceaselessly from

The nature of enlightenment must be eternal, and the eternal must include

the four qualities. It is everywhere throughout time and space, its very being nature that the action of Heaven is always strong. To unceasingly grow strong

without antithesis. Therefore the text says, "Great is the creative basis." oneself, emulating the strength of Heaven, is to unify with nature by means

of culture, to use cultivation to become one with essence.

Look at all the things and beings in the world—what is not constructed

from the real eternal awake nature? If there were no awake nature, there



would be no manifestation of different realms of consciousness. "The hidden dragon is not to be employed," because the

Therefore, whenever we mention the eternally present awake nature, the

positive energy is at a low level.

nature of enlightenment, all worlds are included therein, including paradises

of worldly rewards, paradises of expedient purification, paradises of true re- "Seeing the dragon in the field" means that the exercise of

wards, and the paradise of great nirvana, in which there is nothing but an inner qualities affects everything.



eternal silent light. "Working all day" is repetition of the path.

Based on this eternal reality body of the awake nature, there come to be

"clouds" (multitudes) of responsive manifestations, with "rains" of teach- "Sometimes leaping, in the abyss" is proceeding impeccably.

ings presented in various phases and modes, to enable all kinds of people to

"The flying dragon is in the sky" refers to the attainment

grow and develop in accord with their own natures.

of human greatness.

As for sages, they find out the true character of things, to attain perfect

lucidity. The "true character of things" is not beginning or end, but ultimate "At the peak the dragon has regret" means that fullness

thorough experiential realization is called the "end," and the basis for this cannot last forever.

inherent in people is called the "beginning."

"Using yang," celestial qualities cannot act as the overt leader.

So we know that both beginning and end are the awake nature; the only

difference between beginning and end is that of temporal conditions of con-

When the body of reality is involved in other states of being, it is referred to

fusion and enlightenment.

by its personas; so it is a "hidden dragon." This is ideal identity with the

So we temporarily set up six stages. Though there are six stages, there is a

body of reality, and cannot yet be used.

dragon in each stage, from ideal buddhahood to ultimate realization of

Yet it is precisely because people in mental bondage can still think of this

buddhahood.

inherency, and can sense inexplicably hidden resources within themselves,

Riding on these cultivated qualities, which are identical yet different, one

that there is a chance of actualizing this ideal—for this too is a quality of

manifests the inherent qualities, which are different yet identical. Therefore

consciousness. Therefore "the exercise of inner qualities affects everything,"

the text speaks of riding six dragons to direct nature.

as the qualities of our consciousness form our world.

Though this creative path of the eternal essence of enlightenment spans

Cultivating the inner qualities of enlightened consciousness by means of

all time and is unchanging and indestructible, yet it contains within it the

the comprehensive exercise of subtle observations is here referred to as "repe-

function of all changes. Therefore it can enable the various types of people

tition of the path."

to realize buddha-nature according to their states.

One can "proceed impeccably" by not dwelling in religious attachment to

So every stage is of the realm of realities, which encompasses all things,

pseudo-centeredness.

preserving unity with universal harmony.

Fully embodying human enlightenment and liberating many other people

Thus the enlightened emerge as true leaders, beyond all personal psycho-

and other beings is the work of "human greatness."

logical states, and help the multitudes to find permanent peace in the es-

The true being in ultimate nirvana with no abode still does not become

sence of enlightenment.

finally extinct, but always takes part in all states of being; therefore "fullness

cannot last forever."

THE IMAGE: The action of heaven is strong. People with If we relied only on our inherent qualities, we would neglect the cultiva-

leadership qualities use it to unceasingly grow strong tion or culture of worthy qualities; so exoteric teachings make the cultiva-

themselves. tion of worthy qualities their outer door, and natural celestial qualities are

not to take the lead overtly.

The overall images of the sixty-four hexagrams transmit a psychological in-

According to what the writings say, "hidden" does not mean it will emerge

terpretation based on contemplation. This means all comes back to the na -

8 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 1. Heaven



in action sometime; it is always hidden even in action. "At a low level" does happiness, selfhood, and purity is referred to as the stability to freely enter

not mean it will sometimes rise; even at a high level it does not separate into and emerge from any state of mind. Therefore both Heaven and Earth

from the lower levels. each clarify the four qualities of creativity, successfulness, beneficence, and

correctness.

Now, if these four qualities were spoken of in terms of Confucian prin-

The written statement says: Creativity is the growth of good,

ciples, they would he humanity, justice, courtesy, and knowledge. To align

success is the confluence of the dimensions of goodness,

the interpretations, humanity is the quality of eternity, because it essentially

benefit is the harmonization of duty and meaning, correctness does not change; courtesy is the quality of happiness, because of the beau-

is the effective accomplishment of what is to be done. ties it contains; justice is the quality of selfhood, insofar as it means autono-

mous exercise of judgment; knowledge is the quality of purity, in the sense

The sixty-four hexagrams are all in the two lines yin and yang. Purity of yin

of being unobscured.

or yang makes the two hexagrams Heaven and Earth; when the meaning of

Now, to speak of them from the point of view of their mutual inclusive-

Heaven and Earth is understood, then the meanings of all the hexagrams are

ness, the essences of humanity, courtesy, justice, and knowledge are eternal,

understood. Therefore a special commentary, "The Written Statement," was

so this is the quality of eternity. Humanity, courtesy, justice, and knowledge

composed to expound this. This first passage elucidates inherent qualities.

are useful, so this is the quality of happiness. Humanity, courtesy, justice,

and knowledge are fulfilled independently, so this is the quality of selfhood.

When leaders fully understand and embody humanity, this Humanity, courtesy, justice, and knowledge are unadulterated and unde-

gives them the means to develop other people. When the filed, so this is the quality of purity.

dimensions of goodness combine, this makes it possible to



behave impeccably. To accomplish the benefit of other people ■ The first yang says not to employ the hidden dragon.

makes it possible to harmonize duty and meaning. Correct What does this mean? stabilization makes it possible to effectively accomplish what



is to be done. Confucius said, "This refers to those who are like a dragon but

are concealed, not changed by society, not making a name for

This passage elucidates cultured qualities.

themselves, unknown to the world, untroubled in mind, not

opinionated, free from worry, doing what is pleasant, avoiding

True leaders exercise these four qualities, so it is said, what brings grief. They certainly cannot be made to work for a

"Heaven means the creative is successful, beneficial insofar ruler—they are hidden dragons."

as it is correct."

The interpretation of this passage in terms of the qualities of sages can be

This passage sums up, to illustrate using culture to harmonize with nature, understood from the literal meaning. If we interpret in terms of the essential

cultivating inner potential to bring out the best in humanity. How could it be potential for enlightenment, the dragon qualities that are hidden are what

possible to manifest the fundamental nature of the strength of the creative are called the mine of enlightenment. Even in ignorance, delusion, error,

without the subtle culture that develops humankind? and confusion, the essential potential is always there; so it is "not changed

To give a general discussion of the twin modes of Heaven and Earth, the by society."

creative and the receptive, in terms of nature, they are the body of tran- Now, at this point the idea of buddha-nature is not obvious, so it "does not

quillity and awareness; in terms of culture, they are the qualities of percep- make a name."

tivity and peacefulness; in terms of cause, they are the accomplishment of People use the buddha-nature every day but are not inwardly aware of it;

calmness and observation; in terms of effect, they are the adornments of sta- they crazily get into all sorts of trips. Nevertheless, the buddha-nature does

bility and wisdom. not decrease, even though it is in the ordinary. So it is "unknown to the

Whether we speak in terms of nature or culture, of cause or effect, it is all world, untroubled in mind, not opinionated, free from worry."

eternity, happiness, selfhood, and purity. The knowledge of eternity, hap- That which "does what is pleasant" is the buddha-nature, and that which

piness, selfhood, and purity is called omniscience. Stabilization in eternity, "avoids what brings grief" is also the buddha-nature. It goes along with con-





we




10 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 1. Heaven 11



ditions, but conditions never change it; therefore it "certainly cannot be diligently, and by wariness at the proper times they make no

made to work for a ruler." error even in danger."



■ The yang in the second place says that when seeing the dragon proper means of developing inner qualities. Cultivating speech and estab- Faithfulness and truthfulness are essential for preservation of mind and are

in the field, it is beneficial to see a great person. What does lishing honesty are methods of promoting practice, and are proper means of

this mean? keeping at work. This is the path of uniting the inner and the outer.

To go into action at the appropriate time is to see things through; to stop at

Confucius said, "This refers to dragon qualities in correct

the appropriate time preserves the meaning of the action. When one does

balance. The trustworthiness of balanced words, the prudence

not lose the way whether going forward or withdrawing, it does not matter

of balanced actions—these stop aberrations and preserve

whether one is in a high or low position.

truthfulness and sincerity. They make the world good without

To interpret in terms of the six stages of buddhahood, this passage rep-

killing; their virtues are far-reaching and exert a civilizing

resents the rounded, subtle work in the stage of correct practice of

influence. This line of the I Ching refers to the qualities of true

contemplation.

leaders.

The direct mind accurately aware of reality as it is—this is called faithful-

This passage is also clear in its obvious meaning. If we interpret in terms of ness and truthfulness. This is the means for developing inner qualities, and

intellectual buddhahood, balanced speech and balanced actions are means stands for the main practice.

of knowing the nature of things; by being unaffected, we can cultivate per- As explanation of truth is pure, knowledge is pure; when guiding people

fect self-control in all situations. In this way we can get rid of aberrated men- for their benefit, the effect of one's influence depends on oneself—this is

tal states and preserve the true buddha-nature. called cultivating speech and establishing honesty. This is the means for

The root of good in a beginner's moment of complete understanding is keeping at work, and stands for auxiliary practice.

already beyond the virtues accumulated over aeons of practice of provisional Knowing the goal and reaching it is subtle observation; knowing the end

vehicles; yet one does not feel self-satisfied, for this is not yet the real. There- and completing it is subtle tranquilization. When tranquillity and observa-

fore even though one's virtues may be far-reaching, still one does not enter- tion are practiced together, stability and wisdom are fulfilled; then one can

tain images of far-reaching virtues, because that would produce conceit. meet the buddhas' power of compassion above yet not become proud; meet

The inspiration and the ultimate state of mind, though two, are not sepa- the hopes of people below, yet not become worried.

rate. Of these two, the inspiration and the ultimate, the first is the harder. So

even beginners in the intellectual stage already have the knowledge of en- ■ Yang in the fourth place says one may leap in the abyss

lightenment and the vision of enlightenment, and these are the qualities of without error. What does this mean?

true leaders.

Confucius said, "Rising and descending without fixation is not



■ Yang in the third place says that a leader works all day and is not separate from the masses. A leader develops inner wrong; advancing and withdrawing without fixation, one does

wary at night; there is danger but no error. What does this



mean? ti me; therefore there is no error." qualities and cultivates work so as to meet the needs of the



Confucius said, "Leaders develop their inner qualities and do

This passage shows how ancient sage-kings abdicated their thrones in the

their work. They develop inner qualities through faithfulness same state of mind as when they assumed their thrones.

and truthfulness. They keep at their work by cultivating their In Buddhist terms, directly observing the realm of inconceivability is

speech and establishing their honesty. Knowing the goal and "rising"; using other realms to assist this is "descending."

reaching it, they can see things through; knowing the end and The consistent intent to proceed toward the ocean of all knowledge is "ad-

concluding it, they can preserve its meaning. Therefore they vancing"; profoundly observing the six grades of buddhahood and not be-

are not proud when they are in high positions and do not coming conceited is "withdrawing."

worry when they are in low positions. Therefore they work The desire to meet the needs of the time is the intent to do what is most

12 13 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 1. Heaven



i mportant in this life. If we are not liberated this life, when will we ever be the world is easy for the sage who does not stop and ponder, and has no

liberated? Until we enter the true state of completeness and permanence, we second thoughts. It only takes action to bring about regret, and it only takes

have not crossed over the oceans of body and mind death. regret to deal with arrogance.

To interpret this in Buddhist terms, the body of reality is not in any cate-



■ Yang in the fifth place says the flying dragon is in the sky, it is "high without subjects." The experience of silent light, the land of the gory, so it is "noble without rank." Buddhahood goes beyond all realms, so

it is beneficial to see a great person. What does this mean?

eternal buddhas, is not accessible to those below the stage of enlightenment

equal to buddhas, so "sages are in low positions, without helpers."

Confucius said, "Harmonization—response and attraction of

Therefore, in the ultimate stage it is imperative to turn back and appear in

what is alike. Water is wet, fire is hot, clouds follow dragons,

the world in forms consistent with those of the people in various states, to

wind follows tigers. Sages make, myriad beings watch. Those

manifest innocence in the midst of the world and deal compassionately with

based in heaven are close to the top; those based on earth are

close to the bottom; so each follows kind." their problems.



This illustrates how sages govern the world without overt action, without

intentional artifice. "The hidden dragon is not to be employed" means lying low.

To interpret in Buddhist terms, when the enlightened attain true aware- "Seeing the dragon in the field" means leaving off for the

ness, they see all sentient beings attain true awareness. In the first stage, they moment. "Working all day" means carrying out tasks.

leave distinction from other types of beings and enter sameness with other "Sometimes leaping in the abyss" means self-testing. "The

types of beings, to their great happiness and delight. flying dragon is in the sky" means the leadership is itself

Then, when they have reached experience of the body of reality, they en- properly governed. "At the peak the dragon has regret" means

ter a sort of concentration whereby they are able to adapt their outward the calamity of going to extremes. Using yang, positive energy,

manifestations to any situation; in heaven they arc the same as gods and the creative basis, means the whole world is functioning

goddesses; among humans they are the same as humans. harmoniously.

This is what is called the benefit in seeing a great person; all alike in all

realms look up to the enlightened, because they themselves have the same This is a reinterpretation of the six lines in terms of the states of times.

nature within them. "Using the positive energy" as "the creative basis" illustrates the great

function of the whole body of the hexagram Heaven.



■ The yang at the top says the dragon has regret at the peak. and rising to the peak" are all auspicious if they are not done egotistically. It also illustrates how "hiding, appearing, watching out, leaping, flying,

What does this mean? In Buddhist terms, ideal buddhahood is the ultimate opprobrium, so it

Confucius said, "Noble without rank, high without subjects, is low.

the wise are in low positions, and have no helpers; therefore Intellectual buddhahood still lacks work, so it is "leaving off for a time."

Correctly doing the various stages of meditation practice is "carrying out

regret accompanies activity."

tasks."

According to one explainer, up until now Confucius has been saying that a The stage of conformity is when you are about to witness reality, so it is

sage does not become arrogant at the peak of exaltation; but when it is "self-testing."

viewed from the point of view of fulfillment of practice and effecting self- The stage of partial realization is full embodiment of human enlighten-

reduction, Confucius then can be seen to be using "no rank, no subjects, no ment, so it is "the leadership itself properly governed."

helpers" to represent this. The stage of ultimate realization does not abide in extinction, so it illus-

This is the spirit of' ancient kings who ruled the world but were not im- trates "the calamity of going to extremes."

pressed with themselves because of it; it does not mean rank is lost, the Using yang, the positive energy, is using culture to conform to nature,

people rebel, and the wise leave. cultivating oneself so as to be at one with the essence of human nature.

The word "activity" is used well here. The most intransigent obstacle in Therefore "the whole world is functioning harmoniously."



1 4 1. Heaven THE BUDDHIST I CHING 15



"The hidden dragon is not to be employed" means the positive with beautiful advantages, yet without it being said what is

creative energy is hidden in storage. gained. This is great indeed.



"Seeing the dragon in the field" means the land is civilized. Before, I interpreted creativity, success, benefit, and correctness in terms of

the four qualities of humanity, courtesy, justice, and knowledge. Now I will

"Working all day" means carrying on activities in accord with

explain the four qualities, comprehending them through their oneness.

the time.

They all belong only to Heaven and are not four separate things.

"Sometimes leaping in the abyss" means the course of The word "heaven" implies the quality of creativity, and the word "creativ-

creativity is revolutionized. ity" includes the four qualities. The greatness of creativity is the greatness of

Heaven.

"The flying dragon is in the sky" means attainment to higher

qualities.

How great is heaven! Firm, strong, balanced, upright—it is the

"At the peak the dragon has regrets" means coming to an end

pure essence of vitality. The activity of the six lines conveys

with the ti me.

mental states indirectly.

"Using yang" implies seeing higher law.

Heaven contains the four qualities, but that does not mean just four; so it is

great. Therefore the words "firm," "strong," and so on are repeated and pro-

This reinterprets the six lines in terms of both qualities and times. Seen from

foundly extolled.

the point of view of the contrast between coming to an end with the time

The hexagram refers to the body; the lines refer to the function. Hexa-

and carrying out activities according to the time, all of this is what is called

grams are based on stations; lines are based on changes. As the body is great,

"taking the opportunity at the right time to direct nature." This is "seeing

the function is also great; when the body is firm, strong, balanced, upright,

higher law."

the pure essence of vitality, then the function is accordingly that of the firm,

To interpret in Buddhist terms, insofar as the nature of enlightenment is

strong, balanced, upright, pure essence of vitality.

hidden in the body of living beings, it is "hidden in storage."

Once we hear of the nature of enlightenment, we know that mind, Bud-

dhas, and beings, while three, are no different. Therefore "the land is At the appropriate times it drives the six dragons to direct

civilized." nature. Clouds roll, rain falls, the land is peaceful.

By constant application of attention to astute observation we "carry on

It has already been made clear that the body of the qualities of Heaven must

activities in accordance with the time."

have function—they must be useful. This section shows how sages use the

On giving up the nature of ordinary people and entering into the nature

functions to attain its embodiment.

of enlightened people, "the path of creativity is revolutionized."

Interpreted in terms of Buddhism, this passage says that nature always im-

On experiencing the qualities of permanent peace and freedom, one sits

plies cultivation, and cultivation is all in nature.

on the site of enlightenment, and so "attains higher qualities." Higher quali-

The eternal noumenon of the nature of enlightenment is called the crea-

ties are naturally inherent qualities.

tive source. There is no being that does not begin from this realm of realities,

At the peak, it is necessary to return; those who attain buddhahood un-

no being that is not created and does not grow from this realm of realities.

failingly assimilate to the flow of other realms of consciousness.

There is also no being that does not exist and sense through this realm of

Nature needs culture; essence must have cultivation. When you produce a

realities. There is no being whose very essence and sense is not this realm of

culture that cultivates the best in people while keeping their essential nature

realities.

complete, then you see the law of the nonduality of essence and self-work.

Therefore the eternal noumenon of the nature of enlightenment can pro-

duce all phenomena everywhere, yet in reality there is no producer or pro-

The creative basis is that which makes beginnings and duced, no benefactor or beneficiary. In essence, this is "not changing yet

successfully carries them through. Benefit and correctness are adapting to circumstances, adapting to circumstances yet not changing." It

nature and sense. Creative beginnings can benefit the world pervades time and space, has no antithesis, and is inconceivable. It can only 1 6 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 1. Heaven 17



be called "great" out of the need to refer to it; in reality, no idea or word can templation and imitation, and have not yet formed the qualities of true intui-

encompass it. tion and liberation.

This nature is powerful, robust, indomitable; so it is called "firm." It is by Therefore independent people need to cultivate qualities in order to per-

this nature that we can aspire to enlightenment and disrupt the inertia of fect them and not just use intellectual understanding that has no substance.

futile routines, so it is called "strong."

Because it is not divided into being and nonbeing, true and conventional,

it is called "balanced." Because it is not partial, neither destructible nor per- Leaders study to assemble it, question to clarify it. They live by

manent, neither void nor temporary, it is called "upright." it broad-mindedly, carry it out benevolently. When the I Ching

says, "Seeing the dragon in the field, it is beneficial to see a

The nature of enlightenment is not adulterated with anything, so it is

great person," this refers to the qualities of leadership.

called pure. It is the quintessence of all things, so it is called "essence." The

nature of enlightenment pervades everywhere, every particle of every atom

Study is understanding through learning; living broad-mindedly is un-

of the cosmos, so it is called "vitality."

derstanding through thoughtfulness; benevolent action is understanding

So this body of Heaven as the nature of enlightenment inherently includes

through practice. When people attain completion through these three kinds

the characteristics of the beginning and end of cultivation and realization,

of understanding, this opens up enlightened knowledge and vision, and

indicated by the six lines, which "indirectly convey mental states" of the

these people are called Buddhas. Hence the reference to "the qualities of

various realms of delusion and enlightenment. This is what is meant by the

leadership," which means the qualities of developed people.

inherency of cultivation in nature.

Sages drive these dragons, which are one yet six, to direct nature, which

accords with six yet is one. After they have cultivated themselves in such a Yang in the third place is doubly hard, and not balanced. It is

way as to harmonize with essential nature, then they can produce "clouds"— not in the sky above, it is not in the field below. Therefore one

that is, great numbers—of concrete manifestations that are in accord with works and is wary according to the time. Then there is no error

this essential nature, and use these to disburse the "rain" of true education, in spite of danger.

to cause all beings to be truly and directly aware, so that "the land is at

To be doubly hard means to strengthen oneself unceasingly, only going for-

peace." This is what is meant by the completion of cultivation being within

ward and never withdrawing.

nature.

"Not balanced" means one does not arrive at central balance but is in a

hurry to get realization.

Leaders make it their work to perfect qualities; this is work "Not in the sky above" means one has not yet ascended to the tenth stage

that can be seen daily. What submergence refers to is obscurity,

of enlightenment and entered the knowledge and vision of the enlightened.

not yet emerging, work that is not complete. This is why

"Not in the field below" means having already gone beyond the ten

leaders "do not employ" it.

abodes and having opened up the knowledge and vision of the enlightened.

To be wary according to the time is properly the inconceivable method of

From here down, the six lines are spoken of only in terms of cultivating

the ten practices, entering everywhere into the realm of realities, able to mas-

qualities, and in terms of what will work and what will thwart you.

ter the way of enlightenment while traveling alien ways. Therefore "there is no

To interpret this in Buddhist terms, perfecting qualities is practice, work

error in spite of danger."

done to cultivate the inherent nature of enlightenment. This means creating

actions based on inherent natural qualities.

Since inherent qualities do the actions, mental aberration stops, and when Yang in the fourth place is doubly hard, and unbalanced. It is

it stops, one is enlightened. Therefore this practice is called "work that can not in the sky above, not in the field below, not in the person

be seen daily." in between. Therefore there is hesitation. Hesitation means

The reason the text still talks of submergence is that even if one discovers doubt; this is why there is no error.

enlightenment, the contamination of habit is still not gone. Therefore the

enlightened nature is still covered by passions based on delusions and is not "Doubly hard and unbalanced" is as explained above. "Not in the person in

yet manifest. between" means having already gone beyond the ten practices, now show-

So practices—main and auxiliary practices—are still in the stages of con- ing enlightened knowledge and vision.

2. Earth 19

1 8 THE BUDDHIST I CHING

drawing, staying and disappearing; and yet advance is the nature of en-

"Hesitation" means turning from phenomena to noumenon, from cause

lightenment, withdrawal is the nature of enlightenment, staying is the na-

to effect, from self to others, blending in with the realm of realities, without

ture of enlightenment, and disappearing is also the nature of enlightenment.

partiality.

Advance and withdrawal, staying and disappearing, never increase or de-

There is resemblance to doubt here. In this sense, "doubt" means the at-

crease the nature of enlightenment, and the nature of enlightenment does

tempt to rationalize, so as to achieve adaptative change. Therefore, even

not prevent advance and withdrawal, staying and disappearing.

though there seems to be cultivation and realization, in reality there is no

Therefore sages produce culture while keeping essential nature complete,

such thing.

and complete cultivation in essential nature, always correctly. If you idly

count on the nature of enlightenment, you will become conceited and will

Great people are one with the qualities of heaven and earth, not be truly enlightened.

one with the illumination of sun and moon, one with the To interpret this in the context of the stage of ultimate realization, mani-

order the four seasons, one with the good and bad luck festation of attainment of buddhahood is knowing how to go forward, how of

brought on by hidden forces. In the primordial, nature does to advance; manifesting other states of being is knowing how to withdraw.

not oppose them; in the temporal, they serve the times of Manifestation of the practices of sages, religious practices, and innocent be-

nature. If even nature does not oppose them, how much less havior, is knowing how to stay. Manifestation of aberrations out of compas-

do people, ghosts, or spirits oppose them? sion is knowing how to disappear. Yet there is no loss in the knowledge and

detachment of buddhahood; this is always being correct.

Entry into enlightened knowledge and vision, at the tenth stage of enlight-

enment, is like the sky covering all, like the earth supporting all, like the sun

shining at midday, like the moon shining at night, like the progression of the

four seasons producing and completing myriad beings, like the determina-

tion of possibilities by good and bad luck brought on by unseen forces. 2. Earth

Subtle knowledge of the fundamental finds out the beginningless begin-

earth below, earth above

ning of the realm of realities; subtle knowledge of differentiation defines the

timeless times of the realm of realities. When there is inner accord, there is The creative is successful. It is beneficial to be correct like a

no opposition, so ordinary people and unseen forces are in harmony. It is mare. People with developmental potential have a goal; if

not beneficial to see the unique inner design of reality unless one accords they go ahead before this, they will get lost. If they follow,

with it. they get the benefit of the director. Companionship is found

in the southwest; companionship is lost in the northeast.

Stability and correctness bode well.

The word "peak" refers to knowing how to go forward but



not knowing how to withdraw, knowing how to stay but not All six lines of this hexagram are yin, so it is called Earth. Earth means re-

knowing how to disappear, knowing how to gain but not

ceptivity, docility. In the sky, it is shade; on the ground, it is softness. In

knowing how to lose. Only sages know how to go forward or

people, it is humaneness. In the essential nature of consciousness, it is tran-

withdraw, how to stay or disappear, always doing the right quillity. In cultivation, it is the practice of stopping the mind.

thing at the right time. In the material world, it is support. In the physical body, it is the abdomen

and the organs it contains. In the home, it is the wife. In a country, it is the

Those who have insight but lack stable concentration only know that the

ministers.

nature of enlightenment is precious, and do not know that it can get in-

If it is receptive and docile, it will act without backlash, so this creativity

volved in ordinary states of existence. They only know that the nature of

too is successful; but it must take advantage of the correctness of a mare,

enlightenment is omnipresent, and do not know the nondisappearing disap-

which follows the stallion tamely. This refers to people with developmen-

pearance that takes place when one turns back from enlightenment to har-

monize with the world. They only know the gain of lofty talk of noumenal tal potential embodying the qualities of Earth to practice the way of

enlightenment.

essence, and do not know the loss of neglecting cultivation and experience.

First it is necessary to use Heaven knowledge to open up round un-

Only sages can understand the distinctions between advancing and with-

2 0 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 2. Earth 21



derstanding; then use this Earth practice to develop and complete this The quality of boundlessness means oneness with the quality of nature.

understanding. Southwest indicates the trigrams joy — , fire — , and wind = , all of

If you practice concentration exercises without first having understand- which are in the category of yin. Northeast indicates the trigrams thunder — ,

ing, you will surely become an obscurantist. mountain , water ~ , and heaven = , which can be relied on for good

Just follow knowledge and then apply it; then you will find the "director" outlook.

and get the advantage of direction. To interpret in Buddhist terms, Earth represents the essential nature of the

This is like the eyes and the feet working together to convey you easily enlightenment potential, which contains much without accumulating anything.

into a cool pond, or like skill and strength working together to hit the target This is called Heaven in terms of knowledge, but is called Earth in terms of

at a hundred paces. noumenon. In terms of awareness, it is called Heaven; in terms of tranquillity, it

If you go southwest, you will only get yin companions; this is like trying is called Earth.

to complement water with water—it does not work. If you go northeast, you It can also be called Heaven in terms of essence and Earth in terms of cul-

lose those yin companions and get in tune with knowledge; only then arc tivation. Also, intellectual activity in the course of cultivation can be called

you stable in correctness of balance of concentration and insight, and have a Heaven, while practical activity can be called Earth.

good outlook. In reality, neither Heaven nor Earth takes precedence over the other; they

are used to represent oneness of noumenon and knowledge, nonduality of

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Consummate is the creative basis of tranquillity and awareness, interpenetration of essential nature and cultiva-

tion, the mutual adornment of virtue and wisdom.

earth; all beings live on its sustenance, as it goes along in

Here the reason for speaking in a linear order where there is no linear

accord with the communications it receives from heaven.

order is that noumenon is revealed by knowledge, tranquillity is revealed by

Earth is thick and supports beings. Its quality is of awareness, culture is developed by nature, virtue is guided by wisdom. Then

boundlessness. Its embrace is far-reaching and its light is noumenon and knowledge merge, tranquillity and awareness unite, culture

great; material things and living beings all succeed. and nature combine, virtue and wisdom blend. Therefore the text says,

"Consummate is the creative basis of earth; all things live on its sustenance,

The mare is of the category of earth; she travels the earth

boundlessly, gentle, obedient, helpful, faithful. This is how as it follows the communications it receives from heaven."

Action in accord with noumenon, the inner design of reality, benefits one-

those with developmental potential go to the goal; if they go

self and benefits others as well. One practice is all practices, so its quality

ahead, they lose the way; if they follow behind, they attain

accords with boundless knowledge; "its embrace is far-reaching and its light

constancy.

is great."

To gain companionship in the southwest is to go with one's As a mare travels the earth, though she is docile, she is strong; when medi-

own kind. Having lost companionship in the northeast, tation concentration is practiced according to knowledge and wisdom, it be-

eventually there is celebration. comes the meditation concentration of the enlightened. Practices such as

charity, discipline, tolerance, effort, and meditation are blind, and need the

The good outlook of stability and correctness corresponds to

guidance of wisdom.

the boundlessness of the earth.

If you make welfare projects the first priority, without acquiring the wis-

This tradition makes a detailed interpretion of the words of the judgment. dom and knowledge to direct them, then enlightened knowledge and vision

First it illustrates the four qualities of Earth in terms of the way of the earth. do not open, and you will fall into a sidetrack and lose the way.

Next it explains how those with development potential embody the qualities If you use knowledge to guide action, and action follows knowledge, then

of knowledge is constant and action too is constant. Therefore "companion- Earth to harmonize with the way of the earth.

Reception of energy comes about through origination based on Heaven, ship is gained in the southwest"—one only works with one's own kind; but

development of form comes about through living on the sustenance of when "companionship is lost in the northeast," one sees the whole enlight-

Earth. Because development of form only takes place due to reception of ened nature in every act, and every act is the realm of realities, being in itself

energy, this is called going along in accord with the communications re- having no antithesis—"eventually there is celebration."

ceived from heaven. Hence the good outlook of stability and correctness; when concentration





T




22 2. Earth 23 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



and insight are equal, one can accord with the boundlessness of the essential Now let us borrow the six lines of Heaven to make a complementary inter-

potential of enlightenment. pretation. In the first yang, there is insight but no concentration, so it is not to

be employed. One therefore wishes to cultivate one's concentration; the first

yin uses concentration to embrace insight, so it is like "walking on frost." If

THE IMAGE: The attitude of earth is receptivity. Thus do leaders

one masters this, this is the celestial quality represented by "hard ice."

support people with rich virtue. The second yang is subtle insight into the way of central balance; there-



Inherent virtues are originally rich; therefore the attitude of earth is also fore "it is beneficial to sec a great person." The second yin is subtle con-

centration on the way of central balance, so it is "beneficial for all."

rich. To richly develop virtues by means of adopting the attitude of the ground

of reality, thereby to support all living beings, is the true learning through In the third yang, intellect outstrips concentration, so there is no error

only if one is wary of danger. In the third yin, concentration has its intelli-

which we harmonize with our essential nature by means of cultivation.

gence, so one "conceals embellishments and affirms chastity."

In the fourth yang, knowledge and concentration are together, so one

■ First yin: As you walk on frost, hard ice shows up. "may leap" and can make progress. In the fourth yin, concentration out-

strips knowledge, so one "shuts the bag, with no praise."

THE IMAGE: Walking on frost and hard ice represent the first In the fifth yang, great knowledge and wisdom are balanced and true;

congealing of yin. Mastering that path is coming to hard ice. therefore one is "in the sky" and "beneficial to see." In the fifth yin, great

concentration is itself insight, so one is "dressed in gold, with a very good

The question arises here as to why the first line of Heaven gives the warning

outlook."

not to employ it, while the first line of Earth gives assurance of arrival.

At the peak, it is because intellect has concentration that one knows to

The answer to this is that the nature of yang is movement, and if there is

regret. In battle, when concentration lacks wisdom, the path comes to an

arbitrary or impulsive movement, positive energy might leak away. Thus the

i mpasse.

warning not to go into action too soon.

The nature of yin is stillness, and calmness leads to success; therefore as- Now, if we consider Heaven to be the main practices and Earth the auxiliary

practices, then the six lines of Earth represent the six ways of transcendence.

surance is given.

Giving is like treading on ice; mastery of this can bring on "ice," which

Accumulating good and evil is like "walking on frost"; the resulting joys

represents celestial qualities.

and sorrows are like "ice showing up."

Discipline is like being "upright, straight, great." One is upright because of

In yang there are both hard good and hard evil; in yin there are both soft

living according to orderly and harmonious patterns of conduct. One is

good and soft evil. Therefore it is not proper to interpret yin softness only as

straight because of embodying good ways. One is great because of impartial

bad. Generally, to consider Heaven good and consider Earth bad was a big

concern for all beings.

mistake made by the interpreters of Chin and Wei times [third to fifth cen-

Patience is like "concealing embellishments," because it is the greatest of

tury C.E.]

strength.

To interpret this in Buddhist terms, the six lines of Heaven are explained in

Energy is like "shutting the bag," so that no truth shall escape one.

terms of both essence and cultivation, nature and culture; the six lines of

Meditation concentration is like wearing a "yellow lower garment," be-

Earth are explained in terms of cultivating practices to develop good quali-

cause the subtle concentration of central balance pervades the realm of

ties and concentration.

realities.

The bottom and top lines of Earth represent the beginning of worldliness

Wisdom is like a dragon at war, because it destroys predatory passions.

and the end of tasting meditation. The four lines in between represent the

existence of four kinds of successful meditation.

The second line is meditation that is in the world, but is pure and reaches ■ 2 yin: Upright, straight, great; unfailing benefit without

the manifestation of reality. practice.

The third line is meditation that is both in the world and beyond the world.

The fourth line is meditation beyond the world. THE IMAGE: The movement of the second yin is upright and

The fifth line is meditation that is neither in the world nor beyond the straight. Unfailing benefit without practice; the way of earth is

world. illumined.

24 2. Earth 25 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



Pure flexibility in correct balance is the epitome of harmonious adaptability. If we can be mindful of the vow to help all beings, and not grasp at small-

Because it accords with the inner design of reality, it is upright. Because it scale realization, then individual liberation will not harm the process of uni-

acts based on the inner design of reality, it is straight. Once it is upright and versal liberation.

straight, it must be great. These are inherent qualities of earth, and have

nothing to do with practice.

In Buddhist terms, pure meditation in the world is itself a manifestation of ■ 5 yin: Yellow lower garment, great good outlook.



reality, so it is "upright, straight, great." Accurate attention to reality as it is

THE IMAGE: Yellow lower garment, great good outlook—the

is upright—this is the body of concentration. Goodness without lack is

culture is in the center.

straight—this is the manifestation of concentration. Far-reaching virtue is

great—this is the function of concentration. Yellow is the color associated with the center, the quality of the leader;

Pure meditation in the world naturally contains these three qualities of clothing stands for the jobs of ministers.

reality, and can reach the manifestation of reality in the course of basic medi- In Buddhist terms, this is meditation that is neither in the world nor be-

tation; therefore "there is unfailing benefit without practice." yond the world, meditation identical to the manifestation of reality; this is

Spotting the inner design of reality in pure meditation is called movement the reason for "yellow," since yellow is a symbol of the center.

or action; upon movement, the design of the three qualities becomes mani- Not rising from concentration in which all sense and perception are

fest, opening up the hidden treasury in meditation. Therefore "the way of stifled, yet manifesting ordinary modes of conduct in conformity with what-

earth is illumined." ever world one is in, is like wearing a garment.

This is a genuine avenue of access to supreme enlightenment, so there is a



■ "great good outlook." 3 yin: Hiding embellishments, affirming rectitude, if one works

Beautification with concentration and wisdom is called "culture." The to-

for the government, there will be no accomplishment, but

tality of culture is in nature, so "the culture is in the center."

there will be a conclusion.



THE IMAGE: Hiding embellishments and affirming rectitude

mean timely activation. Working for the government means ■ Top yin: Dragons battle in the field. The blood is dark yellow.



that the light of knowledge is great.

THE IMAGE: Dragons battle in the field—the path reaches an

In Buddhist terms, this represents meditation that is both in the world and i mpasse.

beyond the world, with both positivity and negativity; therefore one "hides

When good is consummate, then cutting off evil must come to an end; when

embellishments and affirms rectitude."

evil is consummate, then cutting off good must come to an end. Therefore at

If one works on the supreme royal concentration of the unique religion,

an impasse there is inevitably a battle; and when there is a battle, there must

then by this one can activate the highest subtle knowledge beyond the world

be one casualty.

and "have a conclusion," without any further accomplishment of graduated

In Buddhist terms, the heaven where there are no mental images is a

meditations.

frozen blank that lasts for five hundred eons and then collapses; the heaven

of neither perception nor nonperception lasts eighty thousand major eons,

■ 4 yin: Closing the bag—no blame, no praise. then degenerates. Ascetics practicing step-by-step meditation who fall into

uninterrupted hell all use concentration exclusively, not knowing how to

THE IMAGE: Closing the bag, so there is no blame, means being balance it with wisdom; therefore they reach an impasse like this.

prudent so as to avoid harm.



Interpreting this in Buddhist terms, in beyond-the-world meditation it is im- ■ Using yin, it is beneficial to always be correct.

portant to refrain from grasping realization. If you grasp realization, you will

fall into the states of those who opt for individual liberation; though they can- THE IMAGE: Using yin always correctly is the way to a great

not be blamed for samsara, still they cannot be praised for helping others. conclusion.



26 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 2. Earth 27



In Buddhist terms, using a static yin is like concentration that does not is necessary to make an early clarification of how to take that single step

produce insight, whereas using a transmuting yin is like concentration that correctly.

does produce insight. Concentration that does produce insight should be

practiced for a long time, until consummate meditation reaches enlighten-

ment; then it is ultimately fulfilled, so it is called "a great conclusion." Uprightness is its correctness; straightness is its justice.

Leaders make themselves upright within by sincerity, make

themselves outwardly straight by justice. When sincerity and

The written statement says: Earth is utterly soft, yet its justice are established, their qualities are not isolated.

movement is also firm; it is utterly quiet, yet its quality is "Upright, straight, great, unfailing benefit without practice"—

straight. By following, it gains direction and has constancy. It thus one does not doubt what is done.

embraces myriad beings and enlightens. The path of earth is

obedience, being receptive to the communications of heaven Only by correctness is one upright, only by justice is one straight; upright-

and acting on them according to the time. ness and straightness are both inherent qualities, but sincerity is the essen-

tial art for cultivation of the path. When one is sincere, one is docile and

In Buddhist terms, this directly eulogizes the attainment of meditation. Be- thus will be upright and straight, so these qualities will not be isolated; this

cause it abides in quiescence, it is "utterly soft" and "utterly quiet." can be called greatness.

Because it can produce spiritual capacities that emanate manifestations to In Buddhist terms, accurate awareness of objective reality is the inner

adapt to all potentials, sensitive and effective, therefore "its movement is body of concentration; embodiment of all that is meaningful is the outer

firm" and "its quality is straight." manifestation of concentration. Once the inner body and outward mani-

Because it is perfected by the guidance of transcendent wisdom, "by fol- festation of concentration are complete, then the great function will appear

lowing, it gains direction and has constancy." That is, because wisdom is and the qualities of concentration will not be isolated. Thus in meditation

constant, therefore meditation becomes constant. one opens up hidden resources and clearly sees the enlightened nature,

Because myriad practices are included in meditation, and each subtle without doubt.

practice corresponds to knowledge, guiding conscious beings, therefore "it

embraces myriad beings and enlightens."

Without knowledge and wisdom, one cannot truly meditate, so "the path Although yin has beauty, one hides this. Working on

of earth is obedience." Without meditation, knowledge and wisdom are in- governmental affairs in this way, one does not presume upon

effective, so it is a matter of "being receptive to the communications of achievement. This is the path of earth, the path of the wife, the

heaven and acting on them according to the time." path of the minister. The path of earth has no achievement, but

there is a conclusion through its agency.



Those who accumulate good will have more happiness; those In Buddhist terms, although meditation that is both in and beyond the world

who accumulate evil will have more misfortune. When a contains the beauty of the manifestation of reality, yet it is hidden and does

minister kills the ruler, or when a son kills his father, this not emerge. This is to be used as an aid to the royal concentration; it should

does not happen all of a sudden, but comes from a gradual not be used exclusively to reach achievement.

buildup, with a failure to make clarification early on. Generally speaking, meditation concentration is to be practiced in accord

with knowledge and insight, like the earth receiving the communications of

In Buddhist terms, good actions are good, bad actions are not good; non- heaven, like the wife following her husband, like the minister assisting the

contamination is good, contamination is not good; helping others is good, ruler.

just helping oneself is not good; central balance is good, extremism is not But if knowledge and insight lack meditation and concentration, then one

good; complete balance is good, mere relative balance is not good. cannot fulfill self-help and help for others; therefore meditation concentra-

Here, "good" means the ruler, "not good" means the minister; if the good tion can act as an agent through which a conclusion is effected.

controls what is not good, then what is not good is made good. If what is not

good hinders what is good, then the good is obstructed by what is not good.

This is like a ruler or a father being killed. Heaven and earth transform; plants and trees flourish. When

Therefore the journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step, and it heaven and earth are closed, the wise hide. The I Ching says, 2 8 TILE BUDDHIST I CHING 2. Earth 29



"Shutting the bag, there is no blame, no praise." This means leaders trying to get rid of riffraff, because riffraff will just keep growing no

being careful. matter how much they try to get rid of them; what they should do is provide

good leadership that people will enthusiastically follow; then there will be

In Buddhist terms, if concentration and insight are capable of transforma- no need for struggle. If people understood what this means, we could get rid

tion, then people of various capacities each receive nutrition and are able to of the curse of parties and factions right away. If the leaders doubt the people,

grow. But if you enter into transmundane realization and obliterate yourself the people will doubt the leaders, and both will be harmed.

and your intellect, then you cannot help others. Therefore those who prac- In Buddhist terms, if the four meditations were mistaken for the four reali-

tice this teaching must be careful. zations in the beginning, then at the end, with the appearance of subsequent

mundane manifestations, one would doubt the teaching that there is no

Leaders comprehend design in a centered and balanced way. more mundane existence after the fourth realization. Thus one would be-

While in the correct state, they maintain their bodies. When come inclined to repudiate Buddhism. This is the inevitable "battle."

there is beauty therein, it rises in their limbs and comes out in Nevertheless, that does not mean there is no one in the world who has

truly realized the knowledge and qualities of the four realizations; therefore

their work. This is the consummation of beauty.

the text refers to the "dragon," to make it clear that the four realizations are

In Buddhist terms, one uses absorption in central balance to reach the inner not in vain.

design of the manifestation of reality. Although the manifestation of reality is As for those who mistake meditations for realizations, they may think

called the "correct state," it permeates all phenomena and maintains all they have attained the four realizations, but they are just obscurantists who

bodies. have tasted some meditation and really have not left the ranks of those

Only profound experience of meditation that is neither in the world nor caught up in the mundane whirl. Therefore the text refers to "blood," to

beyond the world can rise in the limbs and come out in work, so that the define this kind.

inconceivable influence of teaching is carried out through psychological as- "Dark yellow" represents injury to both concentration and insight; when

sessment, appropriate instruction, and practical demonstration. This teach- you damage insight by too much concentration, since insight is defective,

ing benefits those in all realms of consciousness, so it is "the consummation concentration is also defective. However, they are only defective in terms of

of beauty." cultivated qualities.

When it comes to the inherent nature of calm awareness, the dark is of

itself dark and the yellow of itself yellow; even the incorrigible cannot cut off

Yin doubting yang inevitably leads to battle, because it is not

inherent goodness, and even if there is confusion and delusion, the truth

desirable for there to be no yang. Therefore yang is referred to

always remains—there can be no mixup.

as a dragon. It is still not apart from its kind, so yin is referred

Now, to interpret in terms of contemplating mind, yin and yang can both

to as blood. "Dark yellow" means mixture of heaven and

refer to good and bad, but for now I will use yin for evil and use yang for

earth; heaven is dark and earth is yellow.

good. Good and evil have no inherent nature; they are of the same one na-

Both yin and yang arc based on the absolute, so they are based on the same ture of the potential for coming to awareness of reality—what is there to

substance; how can they doubt each other and battle? When the yang iden- doubt? What is there to battle?

tifies yang as yang and does not know that it is of the same substance as yin, Only for those who do not realize inherent good and inherent evil, affir-

it doubts yin and battles. When the yin identifies yin as yin and does not mation and denial oppose each other, producing circular arguments and in-

know that it is of the same substance as yang, it doubts yang and battles. evitable battle.

Just when yin is full, it battles yang, so it is as if there were no yang; there- When we do battle, we bury the subtle nature that is natureless, the

fore it is referred to as a dragon, to make it clear that yang is never nonexistent. subtle, selfless self, and it seems as if there were no yang, no positive energy,

When yin shifts to yang, it seems as if it has left its yin kind, so it is re- so we call on the dragon to illustrate the unbroken existence of inherent

ferred to as blood, to make it. clear that yin has not left its kind. The blood is good.

said to be dark yellow because it represents the point of movement, on the Once good and evil oppose each other, then both are already contami-

verge of change, so "dark" and "yellow" arc mixed. After the change has nated; therefore this fact is referred to as "blood," to show that people

settled, heaven is dark and earth is yellow, and these cannot be mixed up. caught up in contests of "good" and "evil" have not left the ranks of those

Someone has interpreted this passage to mean that there is no point in caught up in the mundane whirl of birth and death.

3 0 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 3. Difficulty 31



When good and evil oppose and overthrow each other, this is because of of virtuous qualities, to overcome error? This is why it is said that knowledge

not having realized that the substance of their subtle essential nature is one, is born when ignorance acts, and nirvana appears when illusions arise. This

and seeing a mixture or jumble of descriptions of events. is why when "creativity is successful, it is beneficial to be correct."

Really heaven is dark, earth is yellow—the higher development of mind is But as soon as a thought stirs, this already is the basis of entrapment in

an endless mystery; physical life on earth succeeds through balance. These compulsive routines, so "do not make use of going somewhere." If you "go

cannot be changed. What is there to disapprove or doubt? What is there to somewhere," this is following ignorance and turning away from the essence

do battle with? of reality.

Good and evil are not the same, yet they arc the same in being of one The only thing that is beneficial at this point is to employ knowledge and

essential nature, just as dark and yellow are not the same, yet they are the wisdom to exercise profound insight into the mind; this is called "setting up

same in being descriptions of consciousness of eyesight. Heaven and earth lords." If you use knowledge and wisdom to observe insightfully, then you

are not the same, yet are the same one absolute. Also it is like the way the know thoughts have no definite origination, and will immediately attain

i mages in a mirror, beautiful and ugly, are not the same, yet it is the same peace. No secret of contemplating mind is beyond this.

one mirror.

If you know the sameness underlying dissimilarity, then you will surely

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In difficulty, firmness and flexibility

not create battles by opposing differences to each other for their mutual

begin to mix, and difficulty arises. Acting in the midst of

elimination.

danger, great success is correct. The action of thunder and rain

if you know the dissimilarity in spite of sameness, then you surely should

fills; heaven creates confusion and obscurity. It is good to set

learn to imbue yourself with good influences uncontaminated by egotism,

up lords, but not presume on peace.

so as to transform evil.

In Buddhist terms, the first movement of ignorance is firm; defining objects

based on awareness is flexible. Once there is subject and object, then there is

a basis for the continuity of the process of subjectivity being mistaken for



3. Difficulty The initial random stirring of mind is the first way of entrapment in com-objectivity; this is how difficulty arises.

thunder below, water above pulsive mental habits, yet it is also the barred opening to liberation; just ob-

serve the quality of the movement of mind. During this movement, the di-

Creativity is successful. It is beneficial to be correct.

chotomization of subject and object takes place; then the mind grasps objects,

Do not make use of going somewhere. It is beneficial defines and labels them, and acts on and gets entangled in the subjectively

to set up lords.

constructed continuity of the perceived world. Thus the image of "thunder

and rain filling, heaven creating confusion and obscurity."

In Buddhist terms, there is the difficulty at the beginning of an age, the diffi- It is best to immediately apply subtle observational knowledge to analyze

culty at the beginning of a lifetime, the difficulty at the beginning of a task, this process; one should not sit in the nihilistic nest of unknowing. Gener-

and the difficulty at the beginning of a thought. I will leave the first three ally speaking, when practitioners notice that random thoughts have not

aside for now, and just discuss difficulty at the beginning of a thought, when

cropped up for a while, they mistake this for empowerment; they do not

a thought first stirs. know that annihilation is the abode of production. So one should not stick

The hexagrams Heaven and Earth represent inherent awareness, which is to this realm of tranquillity and should break through it.

subtle but clear, clear but subtle. Inherent awareness must be clear, and one

becomes aware of illusion by this clarity. In other words, true being-as-is

THE IMAGE: Clouds and thunder—difficulty. Thereby leaders

does not keep to its own nature, and ignorance goes into action; when igno-

organize.

rance is activated, inevitably one reaches the point where objects are posited

based on awareness, thus producing random subjectivity, defining variety To observe that the mind is not in the past, present, or future, and comes and

and sameness, until difficulties arise in confusion. Therefore it is called

goes without any connection to time; and to observe that mind is not inside,

Difficulty. outside, or in between, and none knows its homeland—this is organization

Were it not for random movement of mind, how could there be cultivation of meditation.

32 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 3. Difficulty 33



In Buddhist terms, when one is alienated from one's true nature of subtle of the center permeates all situations, so that basic and auxiliary ways of re-

awareness, luminous and ineffable, the characteristics of ignorant stirring of alizing truth are both fulfilled, and "they win many people."

thought are "thunder." The obscuring characteristics of the objects made

manifest through that stirring thought are "clouds." From these develops

the continuity of idea-action-entanglement circles; this is difficulty. ■ 2 yin: Stopped, mounted on a horse but standing still.

Yet those who correctly practice complete all-at-once stopping and ob- Not enmity, marriage. The girl is chaste and does not get

engaged. After ten years she is engaged.

serving must go to the road in order to return home; they should realize that

this very stirring of thought has the nature of awareness capable of realizing

In Buddhist terms, this is like the work of cultivation and realization through

its own nature, and the objects of thought have the nature of works and

a step-by-step course of meditation. Here yin is in the second position, the

qualities that can make this realization possible.

position of balance; this represents centered, correct methods of concentra-

In the context of the conditions and awareness that can foster enlighten-

tion. But if one cannot immediately transcend, it is necessary to refine the

ment, to explain how to stop the mind from wandering, see reality directly,

mind by going through observations of different levels of reality, and practice

and discern the qualities of all states of mind, is called "organizing." This is

all necessary meditations before one can see the essence of enlightenment.

the foremost observation, of the realm of inconceivability.

Therefore "after ten years she is engaged."



■ THE IMAGE: The difficulty of the second yin is riding on the First yang: Staying around, it is beneficial to remain correct.

obdurate. Getting engaged after ten years means return to

It is beneficial to set up lords.

normal.

When people have leadership qualities but do not have leadership positions,

In Buddhist terms, "riding on the obdurate" refers to the many levels of psy-

they "stay around" and will benefit from remaining correct. Since their

chological problems that inhibit us from enlightenment. Without step-by-

inner qualities are fully developed and can guide the masses, it is "beneficial

step practice of meditation in depth, it is impossible to return to the nor-

to set up lords" to solve difficulties.

malcy of the true nature of things.

In Buddhist terms, to "stay around" means to be immediately aware of

any mental movement and not roll along, following thoughts. This is what is



called "coming back before going far." Chasing deer without preparation only goes into the ■ 3 yin:

This is one who is good at cultivation and experiential realization; because bush. Leaders see that it is better to give up, for to go would

accurate insight, true knowing, is in command, this is like the method of

bring regret.

i mmediate enlightenment.

In Buddhist terms, if you want to practice meditation concentration, you

THE IMAGE: Though they stay around, the action of their wills need knowledge and insight. If you have no accurate knowledge yourself

is correct. Because they value the lowly, they win many people. and do not have enlightened teachers or associates, and practice blindly,

then you will fall into a pit.

Staying around and not going forward seems like there is no will to save the

Leaders know how to see what is subtle, and would in such a case prefer

world. But this world cannot be saved by force; so remaining correct is the

to give up sitting meditation to go look for teachers who really know; if they

way for action to be correct. Difficulty in society derives from communica-

just went on blindly, set in their ways, they would be ignorant and would

tion gaps between high and low; if leaders can value the lowly, they will

bring on themselves the regret of a fall.

become "lords" even without wishing to, and will win the hearts of many

people and inevitably become established. THE IMAGE: Chasing deer without preparation is following the

In Buddhist terms, not following the flow of ups and downs is following beasts. Leaders abandon this, for to go would bring regret and

the flow of the true nature of things, and doing what is correct. But even lead nowhere. though one has all at once realized the importance of the true nature of

things, yet one is able to refrain from abandoning the lowly work of actual In Buddhist terms, greed for experience of meditation is called "following

achievements. This is what is meant by the saying that subtle contemplation the beasts." This is due to basic lack of sincere will for enlightenment.

34 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 4. Darkness 35



■ THE IMAGE: 4 yin: Mounted on a horse but standing still. Go to seek Weeping tears of blood—what can last?

alliance, and the good results will benefit all.

In Buddhist terms, even immensely long times spent in meditation trances

In Buddhist terms, the yin in the fourth place is correct but not balanced; if ultimately come to an end. These too are impermanent.

you use this concentration method for self-cultivation, your road will be long

and it will be hard to make progress. You should only go to seek alliance

with enlightened teachers and associates; then the good results of the com-



bination of practice and guidance will benefit all. 4. Darkness



THE IMAGE: Going in search is intelligent. water below, mountain above



In Buddhist terms, one who does not rely on meditation alone, but seeks Darkness. Getting through. It is not that I seek the

teachers and associates who really know and are really wise, is one who ignorant; the ignorant seek me. The first pick informs,

truly has critical intelligence. the second and third muddle. That which is

muddled does not inform. Benefit is a matter

of correctness.

■ 5 yang: Stalling the benefits. There is good outlook for the

correctness of the small, bad outlook for the correctness of the Darkness is a symbol of ignorance and lack of development. This covers

great. people's eyes and clouds their thought and behavior, but it cannot cover the

essential nature of consciousness, which therefore "gets through."

In Buddhist terms, balanced and accurate insight can certainly cut through

But the science of enlightening the ignorant shows that it will not work if

confusion, but if one then grasps the absolute right away, one falls into in-

teachers approach the ignorant; they must let the ignorant come to them.

dividualistic liberation, and this means that the commitment to help every-

When seekers are sincere, the information will get to them. When seek-

one become liberated can no longer reach them. In the context of the Small

ers are muddled, the information they find will also he muddled. Being

Vehicle of Buddhism, this means rapid escape from the problems of life and

muddled is not the correct way to enlightenment. Confucius was really a

death, so it has a good outlook; in the context of the Great Vehicle of Bud-

good educator; he "did not try to broaden the horizons of those who were

dhism, however, it is remote from true enlightenment, so it has a bad

not themselves determined to do so, and did not try to open the minds of

outlook.

those who had not already gone to the limit of their own understanding."

In Buddhist terms, if the mind does not stir, nothing more can be said;

THE IMAGE: "Stalling the benefits" means that the giving is not

once it does stir, however, there is inevitably danger. When you meet danger,

yet enlightened.

you must stop; when you stop, you have the opportunity to go back to the

It is not that there is no giving at all, just that it does not accord with greater basis, to return to the source. That is why there is a way of "getting through."

reality. If you are ignorant and want to get through it, you need the help of en-

lightened guides and good associates. So it is that those who would be

guides and good associates have education and perfection in mind at all

■ Top yin: Mounted on a horse, standing still, weeping tears of ti mes, but nevertheless they must wait for the ignorant to come to them be-

blood. fore a sense of the opportunity can be created.

Also it is necessary that the "first pick inform," to show the importance of

In Buddhist terms, if you practice meditation without true insight to fulfill it,

the way to realize enlightenment. the basis of the information also must be

then even if you dwell on peak experiences you will not escape the calamity

in accord with reality and potential correctly before it can help people be-

of going through vain repetition, and will certainly not be able to cut off

come wise and enlightened.

confusion and get out of birth and death. Therefore you will be as though

"mounted on a horse, yet standing still," not really getting anywhere, stay-

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: — Darkness there is danger below a

ing in trances for long periods of time, only to have them fall into nothing-

ness. Then you "weep tears of blood." mountain. Stopping at danger is innocence; innocence gets 36 4. Darkness 37 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



through, because successful action is that which is at the heart conscientious in self-correction and not go forth. If you rush into something,

of the time. you will regret it.



It is not that I seek the ignorant, the ignorant seek me—this THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to use punishments, by the correct

means a correspondence of aspirations. method.



The first pick informs—because that which is definite is

The correct method of breaking down ignorance is not emotional attack.

central balance.



The second and third muddle; that which is muddled does ■ 2 yang: It bodes well to embrace the ignorant. It bodes well to

not inform, because it muddles up the ignorant. The take a wife. The child becomes head of the family.

accomplishment of sages is to take the opportunity of

ignorance to educate correctly. In Buddhist terms, when concentration and insight are equally well devel-

oped, you have finished helping yourself, and therefore can embrace, pro-

The reason the ignorant can get through their ignorance is that there are tect, and educate the ignorant, with a good outlook. Through one's own

guides who can get them through the dark, through their skillful use of ac- development, to teach the ignorant to practice subtle concentration is called

tion and instruction at the heart of the time. "taking a wife," which "bodes well."

But even though there may be good teaching, it is necessary to wait for Concentration can give birth to insight, and insight can succeed to the lin-

the ignorant to seek it; because the teaching can respond to them only if eage of Buddhas; this is the child becoming head of the family. The wife is

they have come because they have sensed something. The symbol for this is concentration; the child is insight.

water being able to reflect the moon only when it is clear.

The meaning of "the first pick informs" is definite attainment of central THE IMAGE: The child becoming head of the family is firmness

balance, thereby being responsive to opportunity. and flexibility meeting and joining.

When it says, "that which is muddled does not inform," this does not

The reason that the text speaks of taking a wife and says that the child be-

mean fear of being muddled; it properly means fear of muddling the igno-

comes head of the family is that concentration must produce insight, and

rant, thus harming them.

insight must be equal to concentration, so that they are not imbalanced.

When people are ignorant, the work of the enlightened is to educate them

properly, so that they too may become enlightened.

■ 3 yin: Do not take a girl to see a moneyed man, or she will lose

herself, to no one's benefit.

THE IMAGE: Under a mountain emerges a spring, in darkness.

Leaders use effective action to nurture inner qualities. When people are mixed up they should seek firm guidance to break through

their ignorance, for only thus can their affliction be cured. If in this state

In Buddhist terms, this is awakening the true aspiration for enlightenment they wish only to be accepted and treated nicely, then they will be like a girl

based on the realm of inconceivability. This aspiration for enlightenment who meets a moneyed man and loses her chastity.

cannot be destroyed, just as a spring must flow; the commitment to univer- In Buddhist terms, if they are not correctly centered, concentration and

sal liberation and enlightenment covers all, just as a spring provides water for insight are both of a low quality. If they are put in a dominant position, they

plants, animals, and people.

will lose all possibility of rectification, and there will be no benefit.

Also, when people who are inclined to sport their cleverness are for the



■ moment in high positions, they have already become so mechanical that if

First yin: To awaken the ignorant, it is beneficial to use

they were to practice meditation now, acutely compulsive, deluded views

punishments; if restrictions are eased, it will be regrettable to

would surely arise in their meditation; and once acute compulsions arise,

go that way.

then the root of good is cut off. So the girl is meditation, and the moneyed

When ignorance is extreme, it is necessary to break it down, "so it is bene- man is the arrogant ego; meditation loses its true character when it is prac-

ficial to use punishments." And once restrictions are eased, it is proper to be ticed while under the influence of the arrogant ego, and it loses all benefit.



5. Waiting 39

38 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



If you give medicines to suit ailments, freeing people from their bonds,

THE IMAGE: Do not introduce the girl, because his conduct is

then you arc warding off robbers.

not harmonious.



When action is not harmonious, it is necessary to use abrasive and uncom- THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to ward off robbers, for then above

fortable methods to refine it before it is useful to practice meditation. and below are in harmony.



When there is no dogma binding people, then all types of people can be

■ 4 yin: Stuck in darkness, regretful. contacted, in harmony with truth and in harmony with the potential inher-

ent in the opportunity of the moment; therefore "above and below are in

The yin lines are all emblematic of darkness, or ignorance. The first stands

harmony."

for ignorance that is ready to be cleared up; the third stands for ignorance

that should be attacked; the fifth stands for ignorance that should be em-

braced. This fourth stands for those who have no enlightened guides or good

companions at all, and so are stuck in ignorance. What could be more



regrettable? 5. Waiting

THE IMAGE: The regret of being stuck in darkness is having

heaven below, water above

strayed from reality on one's own.

Waiting with truthfulness lights up success in correct orien-

Real teachers do not avoid us; we ourselves avoid real teachers. As long as we tation toward good. It is beneficial to cross a great river.

avoid real teachers, what can they do for us?

The way to educate the ignorant cannot be rushed; it is necessary to await



■ the appropriate times and conditions. If the time comes,the truth becomes

5 yin: Innocent ignorance has a good outlook.

self'-evident.

When an adult does not lose the heart of a baby, this is innocent ignorance But it is important that the cause be true, so the effect is right; therefore it

and has a good outlook, because of being near to strict guides and good is when the waiting has truthfulness that it lights the way to success that is

associates. correctly oriented toward good.

In the beginning the text speaks of' waiting, but in the end one can cross

THE IMAGE: The good outlook of innocent ignorance is in the great river of birth and death, and climb up onto the shore beyond,

harmonizing smoothly. which is great ultimate nirvana.



The inherent rule of the way to really learn is that you have to harmonize

with the way in order to get into it; even if you try, as long as your actions do THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Waiting is necessary; danger lies

not harmonize with the way, you will have no way to get into real learning. ahead. When firmness is strong and not overthrown,

its justice is not frustrated.



■ Top yang: Attack ignorance. It is not beneficial to be a robber; Waiting with truthfulness lights up success in correct

it is beneficial to ward off robbers. orientation toward good, in that it is posited on celestial order

and thus correctly centered.

When one is firm but not excessive, one can use the power of concentration

and insight to break through the barriers of ignorance. It is beneficial to cross a great river in the sense that

But the way to teach the ignorant does not have dogmas to bind people. progressive action is successful.

As it is said, there are only ways to remove blindness, no special ways to give

Knowing the need to wait when danger lies ahead is characteristic of firm-

sight.

ness that is strong, not bringing about its own overthrow by wrong action.

So if you want to hand on your own personal doctrine, then you are being

In Buddhist terms, long, unpleasant stretches of danger and difficulty are

a robber.

40 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 5. Waiting 41



called "danger ahead." The power of knowledge and wisdom is not over- In Buddhist terms, in the stage of contemplation practices, once you have

thrown by problems, so in the end it is possible to be liberated and not be put down confusion, then the forces of delusion are shaken up; so "there is

frustrated. some criticism."

The yang in the center of the trigram water is based on the body of'

Heaven; this symbolizes how the essential nature of dangerous paths or THE IMAGE: Waiting on the sand is because there is useless

problems is based on the potential for realization of being-as-is. excess within. Though there is some criticism, it is to make

If you use this unborn, imperishable essential nature as the basis, then the end auspicious.

from beginning to end you will be in harmony with the disposition of celes-

tial events.

From the essential nature, the right basis, you gradually flow into the ocean ■ 3 yang: Waiting in the mud brings enemies.



of all knowledge. Therefore "it is beneficial to cross a great river." Going from In Buddhist terms, in the stage of conformity, one is about to cross the great

the state of the ordinary man to that of the sage, there is accomplishment. river of birth and death; there is something about this that brings on the

forces of delusion, and there is something about this that subsequently con-

THE IMAGE: Clouds rise in the sky—waiting. Leaders make quers them.

merry with food and drink.

THE IMAGE: Waiting in the mud, calamity lies without.

In Buddhist terms, practical actions to aid the way to enlightenment are Once I have brought on enemies, I am careful not to be

"drink." The activity of wisdom, the main way to enlightenment, is "food." defeated.

Using activities and wisdom in accord with essence to adorn the essence is

Since the "calamity lies without," the autonomous self does not get lost, and

like the image of clouds rising in the sky.

nothing that comes from outside can take advantage of you. You just use the

To complete nature, we produce culture; the completion of culture is in

power of aspiration to bring the forces of delusion, so as to show the power

nature. It does not depend on working hard to get through the grist, to

of conquering delusion and attaining enlightenment. If the work of con-

"practice" and "realize." Therefore it is called "making merry."

templating the absolute, the relative, and their unity is carried out with re-

This is skillful resting of the mind in calm and clarity whatever the cir-

spect and care, there will certainly be no failure.

cumstances. The nonduality of calm and clarity is like the harmony of food

and drink.

■ 4 yin: Waiting in blood, coming out from one's cave.



■ First yang: Waiting on the outskirts, it is beneficial to employ In Buddhist terms, when the forces of delusion have been defeated, you

constancy. No blame. come out beyond the lairs of all physical and metaphysical realms and attain

true awareness.

In Buddhist terms, the stage of merely ideal buddhahood cannot really be

called "waiting." In the stage of intellectual understanding of buddhahood,

THE IMAGE: Waiting in blood means listening receptively.

it is for the time being good to use the power of the influence of learning as

sustenance for the intellect. At this stage one has not yet battled with the Without even using force to conquer delusion, only the power of concen-

forces of delusion in afflictions. trated compassion, one can see to it that the forces of delusion retreat of

themselves, and enlightenment is achieved of itself.

THE IMAGE: "Waiting on the outskirts" means one has not

entered into difficult actions. "It is beneficial to employ

constancy; no blame" means one has not yet lost normalcy. ■ 5 yang: Waiting in the midst of wine and food,

it is good to be correct.



■ 2 yang: Waiting on the sand, there is some criticism, The suchness of the realm of delusion is the same as the suchness of the

but the end is auspicious. realm of enlightenment. Only liberating people through the development of



42 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 6. Contention 43



powers of concentration and insight can be "waiting in the midst of wine ways. We have true hearts, but they are blocked by the harmful action of

and food." moods, desires, and opinions. So we should criticize ourselves and be aware

of that which is within—this will lead to good results.

THE IMAGE: With wine and food, it is good to be correct,

But if we keep regretting the blockage of truth and have no means of

in the sense of being centered correctly.

doing something about it, then we just wind up stifled by regret and end up

unfortunate.



■ Top yin: It is appropriate to see a great person, to get rid of doubts and regrets with

Entering a cave, three unhurried guests come.

certain exposition. It is not beneficial to try to cross the great river of arising

Respect them, and the end is auspicious.

and passing away of afflictions, and wind up sinking.

In Buddhist terms, this means not only going into the realm of enlighten-

ment, but also being able to go into the realm of delusion, coming back into

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Contention. Above, adamant; below,

the realms of emotions, physical events, and metaphysical states, to liberate

dangerous. Strong in the face of danger, contend.

as many people as possible, observing the elements of the subjective and

objective causes and effects of these realms. This is the unified mind with When there is contention, there is blockage of truth. To be

three perspectives, which enables people to be free benefactors. Those who wary of what is within leads to good results—strength comes

respect these enlightened benefactors end up well. and finds balance.



Ending up unfortunate means that the suit could not be

THE IMAGE: Three unhurried guests come. Respect them, and

completed.

the end is auspicious. Even though you do not reach rank, still

you have not lost much. It is beneficial to see a great person—this is valuing central

balance that is true.

Once you are integrated with the emotional, physical, and metaphysical

worlds, though you are not in the position of buddhas, yet you can liberate It is not beneficial to cross a great river, because it would mean

people according to their type. Even if people do not know or respect you, entering an abyss.

you can still make conditions for their liberation from a distance, and you

have not lost much. If you are strong but there is no danger, it is not necessary to contend with

yourself. If there is danger and you have no strength, then you cannot con-

tend with yourself'.

Now we are in the dangerous, miserable cave of afflictions, yet the intelli-

gence is brave and strong, enabling us to intend to criticize ourselves and



6. Contention When the text says that there is blockage of truth but that wariness of change for the better.

water below, heaven above what is within leads to good results, this is because the quality of firm

strength comes back to flawlessness.

Contention; there is blockage of truth. Wariness within It is enough to get the fault to disappear; do not stifle yourself by too much

leads to good results, but ending up that way is regret. "Ending up unfortunate" means that the arrow of regret has entered

unfortunate. It is beneficial to see a great person. the heart. This creates a great loss, so the reform cannot be completed.

It is not beneficial to cross a great river. The reason it is beneficial to see a great person is that the qualities of cor-

rect balance have ways of resolving doubts and getting away from faults.

In Buddhist terms, a good way to educate the ignorant is to wait for them

The reason it is not beneficial to cross a great river is that as long as the

with comprehensive all-at-once calmness and perception; this is sufficient.

dust on the heart has not yet been cleaned away, and the film of deposit on

But if the habit of mental affliction is strong, one cannot do without effort to

the mind has not been removed, if one enters the oceans of birth and death,

contend with oneself. one will surely come to a point where one will fall and not get out.

In this sense, contention means self-criticism, reforming in ever better

In terms of contemplating mind, cultivating the exercise of insight is 4 4 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 6. Contention 45



called seeing a great person; cultivating meditation concentration is called ■ 2 yang: Not victorious in contention, one goes home and hides.

crossing a great river. The local people number 300 families. There is no mistake or

Waiting refers to people without excesses, who are therefore in a proper calamity.

condition to practice concentration. Contention refers to people with excesses,

who will become deluded if they practice concentration. If one is strong but not right, one cannot master oneself and so comes to

contention. Having made serious mistakes, one cannot avoid loss; one can

only escape, lie low, and lead a simple life, in hopes of avoiding calamity.

THE I MAGE: Sky and water go in opposite directions— In Buddhism, this is like when initiates regress to become student novices.

contention. When leaders do things, they plan to begin with.



Sky and water—that is, intellect and desire—are both of the absolute and ■ 3 yin: Living on past virtues, if you are upright in danger, have no essential opposition. When intellect is unified, it produces desire, so

the end will be auspicious. If you pursue political affairs,

there is no opposition in this sense either.

nothing will be accomplished.

But now that we are pursuing false appearances, one is above and one is

below; they go in opposite directions. This is what is referred to as intellec- This represents weakness in the sense of not daring to do anything wrong

tually desiring purity but being thoroughly polluted. and just prudently keeping to standard rules; by being very careful this can

It only takes a moment of thought in which one is unable to be careful of turn out well. Petty-minded people, however, probably are not up to accom-

the beginning in order to bring about mental problems produced from na- plishing anything great.

ture. Those problems become habitual and grow so strong that they deviate

from nature. THE IMAGE: Living on past virtues is the luck of following

Therefore leaders must be careful of themselves even when they are the high.

alone, aware of the beginning of each act, each thought, not letting anything

If you cannot do it on your own, you will be lucky if you stick with other

develop insidiously to the point where it becomes hard to handle. This is

people. This is what is referred to as the vine climbing the tall pine soaring to

what is called being good at self-criticism.

the heights.

In Buddhist terms, this represents a method of breaking through all phe-

In Buddhist terms, even if it is not a teaching of the universalist school, if

nomena, by questioning whether they arise from themselves, from some-

you take away the temporary presentation to show the underlying reality,

thing else, from both themselves and something else, or from no cause. The

then that practice too is a path of enlightenment. Therefore it is necessary to

result of this contemplative method is to realize that fundamentally there is

follow the highest method of complete all-at-once understanding in order to

no origination.

have the fortune to realize this.



■ First yin: Not persisting in an affair, there is some criticism, but

the end is auspicious. ■ 4 yang: Contending unvictorious, return to destiny, change to

rest in rectitude; then the outlook is good.

In general, good should be strong and progressive; evil is best when it is

weak and recessive. The first yin is weak and recessive, so it is used to repre- This also represents strength that is not oriented correctly or used properly,

sent evil that has not yet fully developed, when reform is also easy. All that is which makes one unable to master oneself' and so come to contention. But

needed is a little criticism. This is like the repentance practices in Buddhism. this line is in the body of Heaven, the realm of intelligence, so the power of

reform is strong, so one can return to perfection and awaken to the pro-

THE IMAGE: Not persisting in an affair means that contention foundly subtle body of nature and life.

should not go on long. Though there is some criticism, the In Buddhism, this is like awakening to beginninglessness by means of re-

explanation is clear. pentance through mental picturings.



THE IMAGE: Returning to destiny, changing to rest in rectitude,

means not getting lost.



46 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 7. The Army 47



■ 5 yang: Contention is very auspicious. In Buddhist terms, if people are ignorant but have made no mistakes,

then one educates them with patience, waiting; if they are ignorant and have

When firm strength is balanced and correct, one is always aware of the exis-

made mistakes, one contends with them to improve them.

tence of anything that is not good, and being aware of it, one does not do it. But people's afflictions are infinite, so the methods of curing them are also

One is extremely wary of making even the slightest wrong move. This is a

infinite. These infinite methods of curing afflictions are called "the army."

way to great goodness, very auspicious.

Of course, it is necessary to cure aberrations correctly, so it is necessary to

In Buddhist terms, this means when all actions, those that come naturally

have profound knowledge of the relationship between medicine and disease,

and those that are invented, are thoroughly pure. and to give the medicine to suit the illness.

So one must be like an old general, a skilled strategist who knows what

THE IMAGE: Contention is very auspicious when it is balanced

will work and what will not; only then can there be good results, without

and correct.

error.

Otherwise, if the teaching or method is not appropriate to the potential of

■ Top yang: Even if one is given a belt of honor, before the day is the person and the situation in which it is applied, then the medicine will

out it will be taken away three ti mes. not cure the illness, and will instead do harm.



Strength that is too extreme is neither balanced nor correct. If one keeps

making mistakes and keeps repenting and reforming, the thin robe of regret THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: The army is a group; being right

in the repentance is like a belt of honor; but repeating mistakes, without a is being correct. Those who can use groups correctly can be

day of clean living, is like the belt of honor being taken away three times. kings. When strength is balanced and responsive, it may act

dangerously yet still be in accord with the right way, so this

THE IMAGE: One receives the robe through contention and is not may poison the country, yet the people will still go along with

worthy of honor. this. Good fortune, and what blame?



Having a fault and then reforming is called repentance; already this is not as Arms are used when there is no other choice; this is like using medicine to

honorable as having no faults. Why must we be dishonored repeatedly be- cure illness. Therefore it is called "poisoning the country."

fore we are ashamed? This is a grave warning to people not to carelessly go In Buddhist terms, the army is the manifold methods of liberation, being

wrong. right is the true certainty of having transcended the world.

If one can use the many liberative methods to correct one's innumerable

delusions, one helps oneself and helps others, and can thereby be a spiritual

monarch governing the spiritual realm.



_ 7. Strength in balance refers to the adornments of concentration and insight The Army

sensing and responding; though they operate in the dangerous paths of birth

water below, earth above and death, yet at no time are they not in harmony with nirvana.

Using this complete, all-at-once metaphysical medicine is like poison

For the army to be right, mature people are good.

milk poisoning everyone in the country, and the people in all states of mind

Then there is no error.

go along with it. Good fortune, and what blame?



If one can contend with oneself, then one will not get into contention with

others. When there is contention among two or more parties that is not THE IMAGE: There is water in the earth—the army.

settled, this is called disorder. Leaders develop a group by admitting people.

Disorder inevitably leads to the use of arms; it is the force of events that

brings this unavoidably about, and arms are indeed a way to get rid of In Buddhist terms, within all phenomena without exception there is the es-

disorder. sence of ease and bliss, and all phenomena include their antitheses. This is

However, weapons are unlucky and battle is dangerous; how can anyone like the image of the presence of water in the earth.

but mature people of character be capable of carrying this out? Therefore progressive people realize that all the countless problems expe-

48 7. The Army THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING 49



rienced in the course of life in the world are also so many ways to enlighten- ■ 4 yin: The army retreats and camps. No blame.

ment, so they do not cling to anything, nor do they reject anything.

In Buddhist terms, this is like a master of precepts for conduct not claiming

This is expert knowledge of what works and what does not. An ordinary

to be universal in approach.

example of this is that if you treat the people well, they will take up arms,



but if you lose their goodwill, they will become bandits and enemies. THE IMAGE: Retreating and camping, without blame, means

that one has not lost the constant.



■ First yin: The army goes forth in an orderly manner;

negating the good leads to misfortune. ■ 5 yin: There are animals in the fields. It is beneficial to take

up words. No blame. A mature person leads the army. If the

In Buddhist terms, the best method of curing the personality imbalances of

leader is immature, there will be casualties, and even if the

beginners is communal and individual order. If one cannot lead an orderly leader is right, the prospects are bad. life, one's actions, speech, and thoughts will be no good and will lead to

misfortune. In Buddhist terms, animals in the fields damaging the crops are like mental

afflictions damaging the sprouts of enlightenment.

THE IMAGE: The army goes forth in an orderly manner, It is beneficial to take up words in the sense that it is good to read the

for if it loses order, there will be misfortune. teachings to clearly understand this.

However, the principles for reading scriptures are to rely on the meaning,



■ 2 yang: Being in the middle of the army is lucky, blameless. teachings; to rely on true knowledge, not on conditioned discrimination. not on the words; to rely on the complete teaching, not on incomplete

The king gives orders thrice.

If you can make a deep search of the meanings and principles in the scrip-

tures, and go into contemplation along with the scripture, then you are like

In Buddhist terms, concentrated insight universally applying all ways of ac-

a mature person leading the army.

cess to truth enables one to heal oneself and others; therefore it is lucky and

If you just stick to words and letters and do not go by the real meaning,

blameless. When one has attained this, one will receive directions from the

that will be like the immature sustaining casualties; even if you are right,

dispenser of the spiritual order.

there is no real hope.

THE IMAGE: This is like Buddhist scholars today. Being in the middle of the army is lucky, for one

receives celestial favor. The king gives orders thrice, thinking

of all the provinces. THE IMAGE: A mature person leads the army, with balanced

action. The immature sustain casualities because their mission

In Buddhist terms, to take up celestial action, and make it into wise and was not appropriate.

pure, compassionate and innocent work, is what is called keeping all this



work in one mind. This is how one receives the favor of the dispenser of the ■ Top yin: A great leader has orders to establish states and spiritual order and receives directions in order to spread true civilization

families that continue. Small people are not to be employed.

through all nations.

In Buddhist terms, when it is appropriate to use corrective measures, one



■ 3 yin: The army may have casualties; misfortune. may arise in something that should work, or an obstacle itself may become a may go along with something or oppose something to correct it. An obstacle

In Buddhist terms, if you apply corrective methods arbitrarily, without way through; so the matter cannot be generalized.

knowing when they will work, you will on the contrary damage your own Now, when the correction has been successfully made and we can enter

and others' mental life. into attunement with ultimate truth, we are about to "establish states and

families that continue," set up common and individual approaches to educa-

THE IMAGE: tion that would truly civilize people, only using good things, not using any- When the army has casualties, that is great lack of

thing bad.

success.

5 0 8. Accord 51 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



If we do not weed out aberration and keep what is right, put aside senti- In Buddhist terms, in terms of the person, those in unenlightened states of

mental views and show the seal of emptiness, selflessness, and nirvana, then mind are the lowly. When they follow the realm of the enlightened docilely,

Buddhism and other teachings will be nearly without distinction. they are assisting.

In terms of the teaching, practical activities are the lowly. When they fol-

THE IMAGE: A great leader has orders through appropriate low the exercise of insight, then they are assisting. It is because of firmness

achievement. in balance that one can produce culture with the whole nature and can

Small people are not to be employed, because they will disrupt complete culture in nature.

the nation. As for the responding of above and below, in terms of person this means

people in all mental realms alike receiving the influence of the way of en-

lightenment. In terms of the teaching, all the elements of the way of en-

lightenment combine in round understanding.

The path comes to an end for people in the sense that they become de-

8. Accord luded or wander off and suffer a fall, not following the teaching of enlighten-

ment. In terms of teaching, this means being eliminated because of emo-

earth below, water above

tional ideas not in accord with the right way.

Accord bodes well. Make sure the basis is always right,

so that there will be no fault. Then the uneasy will come.

Latecomers are unfortunate. THE IMAGE: There is water on earth—accord. The kings of yore

thus set up myriad nations and associated with the lords.

In Buddhist terms, when you have skillfully applied corrective measures and

In Buddhist terms, earth is like objective realities, water is like perceptive

have become enlightened, those in other states of mind regard you as a reli-

insight; earth is like the realm of silent light, water is like the different

able guide. This is called accord.

realms of common presence, expedient purification, and true reward. Both

In terms of contemplating mind, once you know which corrective meth-

have the image of accord.

ods will work and which will not, it is necessary to adjust and harmonize

In terms of teaching others, the realms of common presence, expedient

the elements of the path to enlightenment. The coordination of these ele-

purification, and true reward are set up, to have the enlightening beings

ments is called accord.

transmit the teaching.

Then it is still necessary to contemplate the practice itself, to see to it that

In terms of contemplating mind, objects such as the mental and physical

it is in accord with the unborn, imperishable, fundamental essence. This is

elements are set up to provoke contemplative insight. This contemplative in-

called making sure the basis is always right, so that there will be no fault.

sight is called "the lords."

This means practicing comprehensive meditation, wherein the perfection

This stands for the harmonization of the various elements of the way to

of cultivation lies in nature. All the right efforts, spiritual faculties and pow-

enlightenment, so that they are in accord, without any rift.

ers, and other elements of the path follow along in order. This is called

"Then the uneasy will come."

All afflictions caused by emotional views, which are not in accord with ■ First yin: When there is truthfulness, accord with it is

the correct method for liberation, will be forever destroyed and so are blameless. When there is truthfulness filling a plain vessel,

"unfortunate." when the end comes there is other good fortune.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Accord is auspicious. Accord is

In Buddhist terms, the first yin is like the human path, the second yin is like

assistance; it is the lowly following docilely. the heavens of desire, the third yin is like the heaven of delusion, the fourth

Make sure the basis is always right, so that there will be no yin is like the heavens of meditation, the fifth yang is like a Buddha being a

fault; then firmness is balanced. spiritual monarch, and the top yin is like the heaven where there is neither

perception nor nonperception. On the human path, represented by this first

Then the uneasy will come—above and below respond. yin, it is easy to proceed toward enlightenment, so "there is other good

fortune."

Latecomers are unfortunate—their path comes to an end.

52 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 8. Accord 53



In terms of contemplating mind, the first yin is like the teaching of indi- Also, the teaching of infinite means of liberation for infinite types of

vidual liberation, the second yin is like the teaching of universal emptiness, people and problems involves dogged liberation of those outside one's own

the third yin is like a sentimental teaching, the fourth yin is like the teaching realm. It is appropriate to deal with this by accurate observation of complete

of infinite ways of liberation for infinite types of people and problems, the integration.

fifth yang is like real true complete teaching, and the top yin is like false

teaching of emptiness that disregards causality. THE IMAGE: Accord with the wise outside is the way to follow

This line represents the teaching of individual liberation, which focuses the advanced.

on accurate perception of causal relations. When you open this up, it is none

When there are people of wisdom in positions of leadership, for those below

other than ineffable truth, so "there is other good fortune."

them to accord with them outside is simply the way things should be in the-

ory and in fact.

THE IMAGE: The first yin of accord has other good fortune.



■ 5 yang: Manifest accord. The sovereign uses three chasers.

■ 2 yin: Accord coming from within is auspicious if correct. He loses the game before him. The local people are not warned.

In Buddhist terms, this can be interpreted to mean that people in the heav- Auspicious.

ens of desire have virtues, and they also have intelligence, but they need to

To interpret this in Buddhist terms, when a spiritual sovereign appears in the

cultivate profound concentration.

world, like the sun in the sky, this is called "manifest accord."

Also, this is the skillful manner of liberation according to the teaching of

The "civilization" is effected by three means—mind-reading, appropriate

universal emptiness as applied to that which is within one's own realm. It is

instruction, and demonstration. Also, elementary, intermediate, and ad-

the same as the totality of phenomena being identical to noumenon, as elu-

vanced teachings lead people to liberation, and enable the seeds of develop-

cidated in the complete teaching; all that is needed is to reach the outside

ment to ripen, shed the husk of the worlds, and gain enhancement. These

from the inside.

may be called "the sovereign using three chasers."

In regard to people with no affinity, the enlightened skillfully employ con-

THE IMAGE: Accord coming from within means not losing

centrated equanimity. So even the disciples of Buddha did not forcibly con-

oneself.

vert people with no affinity. That is called "He loses the game before him.

The local people are not warned."

■ 3 yin: The wrong person to accord with. In terms of contemplating mind, when real insight opens out, it is like the

bright sun in a clear sky; this is called "manifest accord."

If one is not balanced correctly, and one is in a position of minor authority

When perception of the ultimate emptiness, conditional existence, and

but has no strong critical guidance, one is "the wrong person to accord

balance of all things is present in one mind, then one can absorb and under-

with." stand the preparatory three teachings, each of which dealt with one aspect

In Buddhist terms, this means the devil hasn't a thought of good, and also that

of this totality. This is called "the sovereign using three chasers."

emotional opinions certainly do not accord with the way to enlightenment.

Concentration on wakeful attention, in which one observes thoughts as

they arise and does not fear the arising of thoughts but fears delay in notic-

THE IMAGE: The wrong person to accord with; will there not be

ing them, enables one to return to correct mindfulness as soon as one no-

injury?

tices a thought, so that one does not keep the error of prior thoughts on

one's mind. This is called "He loses the game before him. The local people



■ are not warned." 4 yin: According with the wise outside, correctness brings

good results.

THE IMAGE: The good fortune of manifest accord is the correct

In Buddhist terms, this means that the realm of pure form has many medita- balance of state. Giving up the opposition and taking the

tion states in it. One should just awaken the aspiration for enlightenment harmonious is losing the game before one. The local people are

and cultivate all facets of knowledge of differentiation outside. not warned, because the ruler has effected balance.

54 9. Small Obstruction (Nurturance of the Small) 55 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



■ Top yin: In Buddhist terms, this is like when the mental center of delusion ap- Accord without leadership bodes ill.

pears, as yet not under control.

In Buddhist terms, this refers to ultimately vain circling in routines and In terms of contemplating mind, when the factual obstructions to en-

being unable to perceive the enlightened or hear their teaching. Even if you lightenment that have been there since beginningless time are overpowering

go on for eighty thousand eons, you will not escape falling into nothingness. even after the harmonizing of the elements of the path to enlightenment,

In terms of contemplating mind, if you suddenly realize emptiness and they block perceptive insight, so that it cannot realize the truth.

disregard causality, believing yourself to have transcended everything, you However, when sages direct the age, they do not reject the ignorant masses.

are not really in accord with the true vehicle to the source. Your habitually The educational and liherative activities of Buddhas do not reject the deluded.

active consciousness is vague, with no basis to rely on, and in a life-and- As the contemplating mind progresses, why fear earlier obstructions?

death crisis you are bound to be like a lobster plunged into boiling water. Indeed, events and situations that formerly obstructed you can become

means of self-development; this is how you succeed.

THE IMAGE: Accord without leadership has no conclusion.

But now, though you need not fear the situation, still you should not grab

for easy success. You should be like "dense clouds, not raining, coming from

The six hexagrams from Difficulty to Accord have each contained the trigram

your own western region." That is, you should only go into action after har-

water . Water has the center line of heaven = , which stands for

monization of yin and yang. Usually clouds that rise from the east rain right

subtle insight into the center of everything. The reason that its quality, that of

away, whereas those that rise in the west hardly ever rain. This line indicates

water, is overpowering and dangerous is that the ocean of passions and the ocean

the value of not grabbing for easy success and the value of long-term results.

of all knowledge are not really two in essence.

Furthermore, from ancient times until now, none have not been born in suf-

fering and died into peace; so the truth of suffering is placed first among the four THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Nurturing the small at small

truths elucidated by the Buddha. The Buddha called eight kinds of suffering obstruction, flexibility finds its proper position, so above

teachers. Suffering causes anxiety and unease, and when one is anxious and un- and below respond to it. This is called nurturing the small.

easy, the ocean of passion stirs, so particularized knowledge appears. Strong yet obedient, firmness balanced, determined in action,

The meaning of the order of the hexagrams as arranged by the sages is pro- one then succeeds.

found indeed.

Dense clouds not raining are still moving. Coming from one's

own western region means that the actualization has not yet

taken place.



9. Small Obstruction Once one is at an impasse and needs development, this is "small" in the

(Nurturance of the Small) sense that it is a matter of being correctly flexible. There is also firm strength

above and below responding to this, so no external difficulties are sufficient

heaven below, wind above to disturb one's stable, firm certainty. Then one uses this to develop oneself a

At small obstruction, nurturing the small succeeds. little.

Dense clouds, not raining, come from one's own western The quality of firmness, represented by the lower trigram, heaven, means

region. there is no aberration caused by material desires; the quality of obedience,

represented by the upper trigram, wind, means one makes no mistakes

The word for obstruction can also be read to mean nurturance; when you through impulsiveness.

encounter situations that obstruct you and bog you down, if you do not get When firmness is balanced, then insight accompanies concentration, so

resentful or bitter, but just nurture yourself to digest them, you will be one's will can be carried out successfully.

successful. Though the clouds are dense, they are still moving—this means that culti-

However, one must not seek to obtain results too rapidly. In worldly vation of inner qualities could be more progressive. Coming from one's own

terms, this is like an orderly and peaceful country with a noninvasive gov- western region means that the actualization has not yet taken place—that is,

ernment, to which some people nevertheless will not come. one should not desire to obtain results quickly.



56 9. Small Obstruction (Nurturance of the Small) 57 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



THE IMAGE: Wind moving up in the sky, nurturing the small. ■ Top yang: It having rained and settled, exalted virtue is full.

Thus do leaders beautify cultured qualities. Even if the wife is chaste, she is in danger.

The moon is almost full.

Nothing has a more subtle influence on things than wind. Beautifying cul- It is unlucky for a leader to go on an expedition.

tured qualities is like when they say that if people at a distance do not take to

you, you cultivate cultured qualities to attract them, just as an ancient chief- THE IMAGE: It having rained and settled represents full

tain won over a hostile tribe by doing dances representative of war and development inner qualities. It is unlucky for a leader to go of

peace. on an expedition, as there is some doubt.

In terms of contemplating mind, using generosity, self-discipline, pa-

tience, diligence, meditation, and insight to correct perceptive flaws, aid in

To interpret this hexagram in terms of mental states in Buddhist contempla-

psychological development, and open the mind, is called beautifying cul-

tion, when we practice a true way, there may be powerful factual obstruc-

tured qualities.

tions that require specific remedies to help clear them away. But though we

use remedies to help clear away obstructions, still the guidance comes from

First yang: Returning by the path, how could that be perceptive insight into the right way.

blameworthy? It is auspicious. In the first yang, accurate knowledge is strong, so obstacles caused by

events cannot do any harm, and so one "returns by the path."

THE IMAGE: Returning by the path, it is right that there should In the second yang, concentration and insight are balanced, so one can

be good fortune. make obstacles into one's own assistants and not lose oneself.

In the third yang, one relies on unfertile intellect and so is stymied by



■ obstacles that arise in the course of events; concentration and insight are

2 yang: Leading back bodes well.

both damaged.

In the fourth yin, one skillfully uses correct concentration to awaken

THE IMAGE: Leading back into the center, and not losing

competent insight, so "blood goes and fear leaves."

oneself.

In the fifth yang, subtle insight into the true center of everything under-

stands that obstacles lead to the qualities to overcome them, so they can

■ 3 yang: The wheels are detached from the cart. Husband and "share the blessings with the neighbors."

wife look away from each other. In the top yang, concentration and insight are equal, so concrete obstacles

melt away and you are freed of them. This is like when it has rained and

THE IMAGE: When husband and wife look away from each settled—the cultivation of inner qualities has been successful.

other, they cannot cohabit. When concrete obstacles are set aside through corrective auxiliary mea-

sures, there will be an experience of utmost ease. This is called "the wife."



■ One should not savor this ease, because to savor it would give rise to pride,

4 yin: If there is truthfulness, blood goes and fear leaves,

and one would think oneself the same as a consummate sage. This is called

and there is no blame.

"the moon almost full." If you believe in this and proceed in this way, then

this will be a great falsehood, which bodes ill. How can we be careless?

THE IMAGE: Fear leaves when there is truthfulness, because

there is a consonance of will with on high.



■ 5 yang: There is truthfulness in companionship. Blessings are

shared with the neighbors.



THE IMAGE: There is truthfulness in companionship, in the

sense that one does not enjoy blessings alone.



58 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING 10. Treading 59



■ First yang: Plain treading; to go is blameless.



10. THE IMAGE: Treading To go treading plainly means to carry out your

vows alone.

lake below, heaven above

In Buddhist terms, this means having the power of accurate insight, thus

Someone treads on a tiger's tail without being bitten, profoundly knowing rankless ranks. Going on this way does not produce

thus getting through.

conceit.



In Buddhist terms, this is when the center of delusion comes under control, ■ 2 yang: Treading the road; it is level. The person in obscurity is and the way of transforming it is working and can be trodden in the sense of

fortunate if upright.

being carried out.



Because one uses kindness to absorb the violence of the center of delu- The person in obscurity is fortunate if upright in THE IMAGE:

sion, therefore it does not bite the person.

the sense of not becoming personally deranged within.

In terms of contemplating mind, after effecting specific remedies, it is nec-

essary to clearly recognize successive stages, in order to accomplish true at- In Buddhist terms, this is when concentrated insight into the center of

tainment of real application. To see mind as in itself enlightened is like tread- everything progresses toward consummate enlightenment and does not be-

ing on a tiger's tail; not getting conceited is like getting through without come complacent but inwardly cultivates the mind so that it can personally

being bitten. witness truth, without seeking the recognition of another. This is the reason

for being fortunate.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Treading is the flexible treading on

the firm. There is joy that is in accord with heaven; this is how ■ 3 yin: The squint-eyed can see, the lame can walk. Treading

on a tiger's tail, they get bitten, unfortunately. A military man

to tread on a tiger's tail and get through without being bitten.

becomes a civil leader.

If one can exercise the position of the overall ruler and not be

remorseful, this is illumination.

THE IMAGE: The squint-eyed can see, but not clearly; the

In Buddhist terms, the flexible treading on the firm may represent using lame can walk, but not well enough to be companions on a

concentration to awaken insight, using culture to harmonize with nature, journey. The misfortune of being bitten is that of being in an

using awakening to seek the highest integration with original awareness, inappropriate place. When a military man becomes a civil

learning to be enlightened while an ordinary person. leader, his determination is adamant.

Attaining delight in truth is called joy. To realize the essence of the cosmic

In Buddhist terms, to know about inherent qualities but not know about

design is called being in accord with heaven.

cultivated qualities is like squinting an eye; to value the exercise of insight

If one can progress to the state of truth without becoming conceited, then

but not the exercise of action is like being lame in one leg. You may think

one can use culture to harmonize with nature and can manage the noble

you can see, but you do not really see true reality; you may think you are a

position of spiritual director.

practitioner, but you cannot really reach the ultimate goal. You talk in lofty

terms about buddha-nature, but you are in fact adversely affected by these

THE IMAGE: words. Originally a crude soldier, you falsely declare yourself a leader of the Above, sky; below, lake—treading. Leaders

stabilize the wills of the people by distinguishing positions. people. Few who do so escape falling into hell.



In Buddhist terms, when we have deep knowledge of the eternal diversity of ■ 4 yang: Treading on a tiger's tail with utmost caution turns out

conscious states in spite of the identity of consciousness with itself, then lucky. we will not mix up steps in the procedure of full realization of complete

consciousness. This is stabilizing the wills of the people by distinguishing THE IMAGE: Utmost caution turning out lucky is determined

positions. action.

60 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 1I. Tranquillity 61



In Buddhist terms, when concentration and insight balance each other, even The inability of strong and gentle demons to cause trouble is what is

if one has not yet realized the center of everything, nevertheless one will meant by "the small goes." The complete development of the power of pa-

progress relentlessly. tience is what is meant by "the great comes."



■ 5 yang: Decisive treading is correct yet dangerous. THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In tranquillity the small goes and

the great comes, getting through auspiciously. This is the

THE IMAGE: Decisive treading is correct yet dangerous;

development of myriad beings due to the combination of

the position is appropriate.

heaven and earth. Above and below communicate, so their

In Buddhist terms, when firm strength is balanced correctly and one is cer- wills are the same. Yang inside and yin outside, strong inside

tain to realize the enlightened nature, from this point on one uses up one's and docile outside, a leader inside and an ordinary person

life to enhance the possibility of enlightenment for all, appearing and disap- outside; the path of a leader goes on and on, while the path of

pearing to influence people, not taking nirvana for personal comfort. an ordinary person vanishes.



In Buddhist terms, if you get the small to go and the great to come, then the

■ Top yang: Observing the treading, considering what is heaven inherent in you combines with the earth that you have cultivated, so

felicitous, the return is very auspicious. that all things develop together. Transcendental mystic enlightenment and

active work in the world combine, so that understanding and action are not

THE IMAGE: When great good fortune is above, there is much separate.

celebration. Inwardly you now have the firmness represented by yang, and outwardly

you display the flexible patience represented by yin. Inwardly you have the

In Buddhist terms, effect permeates cause; when all virtues are completely

power of strong action unceasing, while outwardly you have the means to

fulfilled, we return to our original nature. Because we attain our original

adapt to the world. Inwardly you are a leader on the way to enlightenment,

aspiration for awakening, this is very auspicious.

while outwardly you are an ordinary person in the same continuum of men-

tal experiences.

Because it can transform all realms of mental experience, so that they be-

come objects of enlightenment, the path of such a leader goes on and on,



II. while the path of an ordinary person dies out. Tranquillity



heaven below, earth above

THE IMAGE: When heaven and earth commune, there is

Tranquillity. The small goes and the great comes,

tranquillity. Thus does the ruler administer the way of heaven

getting through auspiciously.

and earth and assist the balance of heaven and earth, so as to

influence the people.

In worldly terms, this is when there is true communication of mind between

rulers and ruled, so that the country is tranquil. In Buddhist terms, the way of heaven and earth is inherent concentrated

In Buddhist terms, this is when the way of enlightenment is in effect and insight; the balance of heaven and earth is the balanced use of concentration

the methods it uses are working calmly. and insight. Administration and assistance mean using culture to supple-

In terms of contemplating mind, this means profound understanding of ment nature. Influencing the people means that one is not destroyed by de-

the various grades of self-realization, and cultivating experience surely with- mons, strong or weak, and so can use these two kinds of demons as servants.

out becoming conceited.

This also can be taken to refer to calm endurance of both strong and weak

demons, so that the demons recede and the way of enlightenment goes ■ First yang: Pulling out a reed by the roots, other reeds come

through. with it. It is auspicious to go forth.



62 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 11. Tranquillity 63



THE IMAGE: Pulling out reeds, going forth to success, means ■ 4 yin: Unsettled, not prosperous, one works with the neighbor.

focusing the will beyond. Sincerity is exercised, without caution.



Positive strength is at the beginning of tranquillity; but does that mean one THE IMAGE: Being unsettled and not prospering are both due

should spend one's whole life in a low state? It is by taking similar people

to loss of the real. Exercise of sincerity without caution is the

along to progress, the will not being limited to personal or family concerns,

heart's true desire.

that it is possible to guarantee the tranquillity of the world in the end.

This line represents the quality of being flexible but correct at a time when



■ tranquillity has already passed midway. Although one has no real true abil-

2 yang: Accepting the uncultivated, employing those who

ity or power to effect order, still if one relies on those with the same aspira-

can cross rivers, not overlooking the remote, free from

tion, it is thereby possible to prevent disastrous confusion. So among people

partisanship, one can seriously perform balanced action.

of the same aspiration there is mutual trust, without any formal pact; there-

fore it is still possible to preserve this tranquility.

THE IMAGE: Accepting the uncultivated and seriously

performing balanced action are due to greatness of



illumination. ■ 5 yin: The emperor marries off his younger sister, whereby

there is good fortune, very auspicious.

Here strength is balanced and in harmony with the fifth yin of this hexa-

gram. This represents when someone who is wise is also in charge of carry-

THE IMAGE: That by which there is very auspicious good

ing out tasks relating to the organization and operation of government and

fortune is the balanced carrying out of deliberate, purposeful

society, and does so in the best possible manner, with the most appropriate

undertakings.

ti ming.

So here it is good to be tolerant, and accept the uncultivated and un- Flexible but balanced people in high positions who are open to the advice of

skilled, and see after their welfare. As for those of talent, who can, so to the wise and do not consider leadership a personal monopoly are symbol-

speak, "cross rivers," employ them. Do not overlook those who are far away. ized by the emperor marrying off his younger sister to a minister. If the ruler

Do not just be a partisan of other strong people, but cooperate seriously is able to recognize good advice and is open to it, then it is easy for the wise

with those on a higher level who are flexible yet balanced and sane, so that to work for such a ruler so as to maintain tranquillity permanently.

enlightenment will become widespread.



■ Top yin: The castle walls crumble into the moats. Do not use the

■ 3 yang: There is no level without incline, no going without army. Announcing order in one's own locality is shameful, in

returning. Be upright in difficulty, and you will be blameless.

spite of correctness.

Do not grieve over your sincerity; there will be prosperity in

sustenance. THE IMAGE: The castle walls crumbling into the moats means

that order is in disarray.

THE IMAGE: There is no going without returning—this refers to

the border of heaven and earth. When tranquillity culminates, there must be obstruction; the forces of time

assure us of this. Passive flexibility has no ability to get rid of confusion,

No individual or society has ever had enduring tranquillity and not gone

hence the caution not to use the army.

had. The point is simply to be aware of what that which is maintaining it is

Those who have lost their authority above will make much of their orders

like. The third yang represents strength being correct, enabling one to be

to those below them, so there are those who give orders in their own

upright in difficulty and have prosperity, pulling back this border of heaven

localities. This is not the place to give orders, yet they are arbitrarily giving

and earth. out orders—this is shameful.

However, the state represented by this top line is simply one of inability;

since yin rests on yang, it is still correct, so it is not entirely without merit. It

64 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 12. Obstruction 65



is just that in such a situation—the culmination of tranquillity—order is dis- dental true tolerance and true knowledge; therefore it denies humanity and

turbed and comes from personal bailiwicks. thwarts the correctness of the leader, because you are turning away from the

universalistic way and falling back into the perspective of temporary per-

sonal concerns.

Now to interpret the six lines in Buddhist terms. If you want to calmly

endure strong and weak demons, you must depend on the power of con-

centration and insight. The first yang is strong and upright, so once inner '

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Obstruction s denial of humanity

demons are conquered, outer demons will also submit, as when one pulls

does not make the leader's correctness beneficial. The great

out a reed and takes others along with it.

goes and the small comes. This means that heaven and earth

In the second yang, strength is balanced, so once outer demons are trans-

do not commune, so myriad beings do not develop.

formed, inner demons do not arise. This is like "seriously performing bal-

anced action," so that "enlightenment is widespread." When above and below do not communicate, no country can

The third yang is too strong, so it is necessary to be upright in difficulty exist. When inwardly weak while outwardly strong, inwardly

before one can be blameless. Because the basis is accurate insight, one will a small person while outwardly a leader, then the way of

surely be able to attain concentration, so it is "the border of heaven and the small will be fostered, and the way of true leadership

earth." will wane.

The fourth yin represents correct concentration truthful to accurate in-

sight, so even though it may not be rich, it can "work with the neighbor." In Buddhist terms, if you give rise to religious attachment to an imitative

When one knows that demons have no reality, the demons become one's path, then your cultivated qualities will not accord with the heaven of inher-

assistants and are like neighbors. ent qualities, and none of your practices will be developmental.

In the fifth yin, concentration has the right insight, so one can identify the If transcendence is not combined with integration, you cannot emanate

realm of demons with the realm of enlightenment and become imbued with the "countries" of common presence, expedient liberation, and true reward

the twin adornments of blessings and wisdom, like the emperor marrying from the realm of silent light.

off his daughter so that there is good fortune that is very auspicious. If you inwardly attain passive, flexible, docile tolerance and place positive,

The top yin shows how demons can come out and cause disturbance be- strong enlightened nature beyond you, inwardly you are the same as small

cause one persists in a low level concentration. people who are mainly concerned with personal liberation, and you place

the enlightened leaders beyond you. Unable to attain enlightenment your-

self, you cannot influence others to attain enlightenment; therefore the way

of the small will be fostered and the way of true leadership will wane.

People always fear demons, strong and weak, so the tradition on Tran-



12. Obstruction quillity uses words of utmost felicity to comfort them and enable them to

avoid shrinking back, intimidated. People always love religious attachment in

earth below, heaven above following a way, so the tradition on Obstruction uses words of utmost lament

to warn them not to become attached.

Obstruction's denial of humanity does not make the leader's

correctness beneficial. The great goes and the small comes.



THE IMAGE: — Heaven and earth do not communeobstruction.

In Buddhist terms, this is when the teaching becomes popular and there are Leaders therefore use power parsimoniously to avoid trouble,

many professional monks and nuns, and contaminated teachings and prac-

and should not prosper on wages.

tices arise.

In terms of contemplating mind, after calmly enduring demons, one at- In Buddhist terms, this means that one observes this religious attachment in

tains a semblance of realization; there is a tendency to give rise to religious following a path, and it is trouble like a dangerous pitfall, and so one does

attachment to an imitative path and not progress further. not grasp the taste of the experience. This is what is meant by "should not

If you give rise to religious attachment, then it is not the way of transcen- prosper on wages."

66 THE BUDDHIST I CITING 12. Obstruction 67



■ First yin: Pulling out a reed by the roots, taking other reeds ■ 4 yang: If there is order, there is no blame. The companions

with it, correctness is auspicious and successful. cleave to blessings.



THE IMAGE: — Pulling out a reed, correctness is auspicious THE IMAGE: If there is order there is no blame because

the will is in the leader. the will is carried out.



All six lines involve the responsibility for rescue from obstruction, and all When one is strong but not upright, if one is in a high position one would

speak of methods of rescue from obstruction, so one should not take the be likely to go wrong. But when obstruction culminates and tranquillity

bottom three lines as denying humanity. comes, one also gets companions together, cleaving to blessings, so the de-

The first line represents passivity or weakness, or flexible docility, being termination to rescue people from obstruction is carried out.

put in a position where firm, active strength is called for; there are those of

like mind who can help, so "pulling out a reed by the roots takes other reeds

with it," and this bodes well and is successful. ■ 5 yang: Putting a stop to obstruction, great people are

The time, however, is at the beginning of' obstruction, so it is best to think fortunate. But they still keep destruction in mind.

of troubles that may occur and prevent them; that is why the text cautions

THE IMAGE: The fortune of great people is when their position

with the word "correct."

is truly appropriate.



This represents positive strength balanced correctly and put in the position

■ 2 yin: Embracing service, small people are lucky; great people of leadership, corresponding with ministers below in whom flexible obe-

get through obstruction. dience is balanced correctly. Therefore it is possible to put a stop to obstruc-

tion and be fortunate.

THE IMAGE: Great people get through obstruction in the sense However, trouble is always overcome when it has not yet happened, and

that they are not deranged by the crowd. disturbance always arises in what is overlooked. Therefore it is necessary to

be calm yet not forget danger, to live without forgetting death, to be orderly

This line represents flexible docility balanced correctly, responding to the

but not forget disorder. This should be kept firmly in mind. Who but great

leader with positive firmness balanced correctly, represented by the fifth

people can do this?

yang above, who develops people's hearts with humaneness and kindness,

bringing back the celestial fortune. So small people who embrace service to

enlightened order are lucky. ■ Top yang: Overturning obstruction. First there is obstruction,

But from the point of view of the great person in the position of this sec- afterward joy.

ond yin, this is where one sees the world not yet at peace and is still choked

and uneasy at heart; yet it is precisely because of this unease that one can THE IMAGE: When obstruction ends, it collapses.

bring about a successful way through impasses and be invulnerable to mass What can last?

derangement.

When strength is not balanced correctly, first there is obstruction. But when

obstruction ends, then it collapses; it definitely cannot last. Therefore there



■ can be joy afterward. 3 yin: Embracing disgrace.

In Buddhist terms, religious attachment following a path cannot be up-

THE IMAGE: rooted without positive strong knowledge. Embracing disgrace means that the position is not

appropriate. In the first yin, religious attachment is not too deep-rooted, but it is in a

position for positivity; if you can root it out from this one, then all will come

This represents being inwardly strong while outwardly weak. If there is any- out together. Therefore one strives to be correct, for by working correctly

thing you can do to help the rescue of people from obstruction, you will do one will get through auspiciously. Inspiration is a matter for the leader,

it, without concern for petty reputation or petty manners. which here is the true experience of reality.



68 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING 13. Sameness with People 69



In the second yin, religious devotion has gradually become deep, so it is THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In sameness with people, flexibility

good for small people. Great people should at this point visualize chok- finds its place and gains balance, so to correspond with the

ing obstruction, so that they can find a way to progress and get through creative. When it says that sameness with people in the

successfully. wilderness is successful, and that it is beneficial to cross a

In the third yin, religious attachment is most profound. One also has a great river, this is creative action. Health through civilization

small intelligence, and mistakenly takes an imitative path for a real one. So and enlightenment, responding with balance correctly is the

this is called "embracing disgrace." correctness of a leader. A leader is one who can communicate

The fourth yang is strong but not right. Though one gives rise to religious with the wills of the world.

attachment for a while, ultimately one can uproot it and carry out one's

In terms of contemplating mind, being an ordinary person who has not yet

true aim.

witnessed true reality is called flexibility. Now gaining access to the absolute

In the fifth yang, firm strength is balanced correctly, so it enters directly

and actually witnessing the center of everything, we are united with the

into the proper position and is fortunate. But there are still many kinds of

body of creative power that is the real body of Buddhas, so this is called

ignorance that have not been cut off, so one will not stay in any state—this is

"sameness with people."

here called "keeping destruction in mind." From this, every state of mind

Once we have witnessed the true being of Buddhas, we must exercise en-

enters the ocean of all knowledge, and the witnessing awareness does not

lightened qualities to liberate people; this is called creative action.

recede.

Health through civilization and enlightenment, responding with balance

In the top yang, yang is in a yin place; although in the beginning one may

correctly is like the sun and moon shining in the sky, their reflections spon-

not have escaped religious attachment, in the end the power of knowledge

taneously appearing wherever there is clear water. This is the correctness of

and wisdom were so strong that they could overturn it.

leaders.

Leaders are those who have already cut off ignorance and found the cen-

ter of reality, and who adapt the inherent ability to command any of the

roles or states open to humankind. Therefore they can communicate with

13. Sameness with People the wills of the world, joining all people and all beings in the same sorrows

and longing for release that are shared by all forms of life.

fire below, heaven above



Sameness with people in the wilderness is successful.

THE IMAGE: Sky with fire—sameness with people.

It is beneficial to cross a great river. It is beneficial

Leaders distinguish beings in terms of classes and families.

for a leader to be correct.

Without differences, how could sameness be shown? Make sure the differ-

In sociopolitical terms, this means that to overcome obstruction it is neces- ent do not lose their differences, so that sameness can rest in great sameness.

sary to cooperate with people, sharing the same aim. In Buddhist terms, just as sky and fire are similar yet dissimilar, dissimilar

In terms of contemplating mind, this is when one has become detached yet similar, the various states of being each have their families, each of which

from religious attachment following a path, and now for the first time enters acts as one being with one mind.

into sameness with all life, joining with the power of compassion of the Bud- One mind has all possible states of being inherent in it, and every state of

dhas above, sharing the same sorrowful longing as people below; therefore being has every other state of being inherent in it, so there are countless

it is called "sameness with people." differences in the points of interpenetration of these states of being, which

"The wilderness" means beyond the realms of desire, form, and form- are representative of our states of mind.

lessness. It also means the unobstructed realm of silent light. Once one has So all these states of being are ultimately based on just one mind. This is

gone beyond birth and death, one should return to cross the great river of the final attainment of sameness without sameness, nonsameness with

birth and death, to bring other people across. sameness.

Only using enlightened knowledge and enlightened vision to teach people



is referred to here by the statement "It is beneficial for a leader to be ■ First yang: Sameness with people at the gate is blameless. correct."

70 13. Sameness with People THE BUDDHIST I CHING 71



THE IMAGE: ■ 5 yang: In sameness with people, first there is weeping, later And if you are the same as people outside the gate,

who can blame you? laughter. The great general conquers, and meets others.



The way of sameness with people calls for impartiality and impersonality. THE IMAGE: The reason sameness with people is in front is that

Here there is correct strength in the beginning without a linking correspon- it is the middle way. In a meeting with the great general, his

dent at a higher level, so if one goes "outside the gate," one can thus get to words overcome.

the wilderness, so there is no blame.

In the second yin, recessive flexibility is balanced correctly; this is the

guideway for fire, the intellect. This corresponds with the fifth yang, in what

■ 2 yin: Sameness with people in the clan is regrettable. is called sameness in spite of nonsameness, which is true sameness. True

sameness was blocked by the third and fourth yangs, so it was impossible to

THE IMAGE: Sameness with people in the clan is the road to

avoid weeping and employing the great general to overcome them.

regret. The fifth yang is balanced, so he meshes perfectly with the second yin and

does not doubt what he had to do. He is honest, so he weeps and uses arms,

The second yin is in its place, in balance, so it can correspond with the cre-

without any qualms.

ative. This is why this hexagram is called Sameness with People. But since re-

cessive flexibility cannot get far, if you are this way at any given time, you



may fall into the company of whoever happens to be around and become ■ Top yang: Sameness with people in the countryside involves no

one of them willy-nilly. Eventually you will regret this.

regret.



■ THE IMAGE: Sameness with people in the countryside is when

3 yang: He hides fighters in the bush; he climbs the high hill.

the aspiration has not yet been attained.

Three years without flourishing.



One commentator says that there is no regret because one does not try to

THE IMAGE: One hides fighters in the bush because the enemy

force sameness unreasonably, but the aspiration is not yet attained because

is strong. Three years without flourishing is calm activity.

no one stands with one.

The second place in a hexagram corresponds with the fifth place. Here, the Interpreted in terms of contemplating mind, each of the six lines again

second yin is not something that the third yang can force sameness with. The illustrates the efforts inspired by desire to realize sameness with people.

third yang wrongly seeks the sameness, so he hides fighters to lie in wait and If you want to experientially enter the reality nature that is the same for all

climbs the high hill to spy. people, you need to use the power of concentrated insight. You cannot do it

The fifth yang represents strength that is balanced and correct, both in by conscious seeking, but you cannot get it by mindlessness either. As they

name and reality. This cannot be opposed by the irrational strength of the say, when the right time comes, the design will be self-evident. This is the

third yang. secret of cultivating the mind—do not forget, but do not try to help.

The first yang represents accurate insight and true wisdom appearing,



■ 4 yang: He mounts the wall but does not succeed in the attack. The second yin represents having correct concentration but lacking suffi- without effort; then one can go out of the gate of birth and death.

This is lucky. cient power of insight, still not escaping being fascinated by meditation, and

not getting out of the old "clan" of the realms of desire, form, and formless

THE IMAGE: It was right that he did not succeed when he

experience.

mounted the wall. The luck is that he will return to order when

The third yang represents only using insight, claiming to be right, but not

he reaches the impasse.

having any concentration to sustain it. Therefore it is like climbing to the top

The image of fire is that of a wall. The fourth yang also wrongly desires of a high hill and becoming one of the bodhisattvas that fall at the peak, "not

sameness with the second yin, so he tries to climb the wall of the third yang flourishing for three years."

to attack her. But justice informs him that he must be thwarted, so he can The fourth yang represents concentration and insight evenly balanced;

return to order and not attack anymore. whereas there was a sense of anticipation at first, now one knows that ex- 72 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 14. Great Possession 73



pectations cannot match reality, so one has good fortune by finally entering "Firm strength" and "civilized intelligence" refer to the accomplishments

integration with reality nondeliberately. of wise and pure practices.

The fifth yang represents firm strength balanced correctly yet insufficient "Responding to nature and acting according to the time" means realizing

in concentration power; though one sees the enlightened nature, it is not a multitude of enlightening practices within one mind, using celestial action

perfectly clear. Therefore it is necessary first to cultivate many practices, ac- as the substance from which to produce the functions of innocent and com-

cumulate resources for enlightenment, and rely on the power of innumer- passionate actions.

able good qualities and works; only after that will one discover the true way

to reality. It is because this is direct focus on the essence of complete aware-

THE IMAGE: Fire in the sky—great possession. Leaders obey

ness at the center of everything, whereby it is possible to go far beyond the

nature and accept its order by stopping the bad and promoting

truths of emptiness and conditionality, that there is "first weeping, afterward

the good.

laughter."

In the top yang, though concentration and insight are again equal, never-

In Buddhist terms, when you cultivate the bad, you should cut it off com-

theless one is at the culmination of creativity and can only get the empty

pletely; when you cultivate the good, you should fulfill it. Only then are you

experience of nirvana, incapable of entering the ordinary world and extend-

going along with the good order of the ultimate essence of things. All states

ing help to others; therefore "the aspiration is not yet attained."

of being have this essence inherent in them and are indeed made of this es-

sence, but all states other than that of complete enlightenment are out of

harmony with this essence in some way. Buddhahood is when you accord

with this essence.

14. Great Possession



heaven ■ First yang: As long as there is none of the harm that comes below, fire above

from association, this is not blameworthy. If one struggles,

Great possession is great success. there will be no blame.



In political terms, this means inheriting the earth after people of like mind THE IMAGE: The positivity in the beginning of great possession

overthrow injustice. is the absence of the harm that comes from association.

In Buddhist terms, this is when transformative practice is widely carried

A problem of people whose possessions are great is to cause harm by asso-

out after establishment and explanation of the necessary disciplines.

ciating with too many people. If they struggle, then the end will also be like

In terms of contemplating mind, this is self-adornment with achieve-

the beginning.

ments, qualities, knowledge, and wisdom, after experiencing the universal

essence of reality.

All of these are ways of great success. ■ 2 yang: Using a large car for transport, there is a place to go.

No fault.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In great possession, flexibility is

THE IMAGE: Using a large car for transport, if the load is

in an important position. Greatness is balanced, and above

balanced you will not fail.

and below respond to it. This is called great possession. Its

qualities are firm strength and civilized intelligence. It The "large car" refers to the fifth yin, which represents receptive openness.

responds to nature and acts according to the time; therefore Even if there is a wise ruler who is able to listen to advice, if there are no

it is greatly successful. wise ministers to work with the ruler, how can there be no failure? Here,

"the load is balanced" means that the guidance received is wise.

In Buddhist terms, "great possession" means when you enter directly from

the state of an ordinary person into the exalted state of actualized buddha-

hood and witness the center of all things, to which all states of being are ■ 3 yang: I mpartial action gets through to the ruler. Small people

subordinate. are incapable of this.

74 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 14. Great Possession 75



THE IMAGE: The action of the baron gets through to the ruler. obedience of balanced flexibility; the mutuality of trust is the trust of bal-

Small people would be harmed. anced flexibility; being the resort of all positive forces is balanced, flexible

respect for the wise. The top yang represents acting on this.

It is possible to get through to a ruler by being firm, strong, upright, correct,

Those who can act on this themselves can obey and trust, and can there-

and in an important position. How can small people do this?

fore respect the wise; so where does the help of heaven and humanity end

up? This is why it is said that the sage has no success, the spiritual human

■ 4 yang: Negating self-inflation, there is no blame. has no name.



THE IMAGE: Negating self-inflation, there is no blame,

because the understanding is clear. The lines may be interpreted in Buddhist terms in two senses: one accord-

ing to educational outreach after realization and the other according to pro-

The fourth yang is firm and strong, but not excessively so. It is also in the gressive practice of educational method.

body of fire, which represents understanding being clear and negating self- First, in terms of educational outreach after realization, the first yang rep-

inflation, so that one can work for enlightened leadership. resents appearing in states conditioned by emotional confusion, without

being affected by the anxieties of these states, just commiserating with



■ people out of compassion. 5 yin: This trust is mutual. It is fortunate to be awesome.

The second yang represents appearing among civilized people, among

THE IMAGE: whom it is possible to effect widespread liberation of all kinds of people by This trust is mutual; aspirations are aroused

through faith. The good fortune of being awesome is ease and means of methods of collective enlightenment. Therefore "there is a place to

freedom from preparation. go," and this "will not fail."

The third yang represents working on the celestial plane without being

Flexibility in balance in the honored (fifth) position single-mindedly trusts affected by celestial bliss or by meditation trances. Therefore "small people

the balanced strength represented by the second yang; the world trust this, are incapable of this." If small people entered celestial states, they would be

so the people are awed without anger, and it is not necessary to make any harmed by bliss or trance.

special effort to awe them. The fourth yang represents manifesting forms of methods for individual

One commentator explains that freedom from preparation indicates more liberation, therefore "negating self-inflation," yet not taking experience of

than sufficiency, because preparation arises from insufficiency, and thus is a total extinction for personal liberation, so having "understanding that is

manifestation of insufficiency, which causes awesomeness to be diminished. clear."

The fifth yin represents appearing as an enlightening being. Enlightening



■ Top yang: beings initiate those who are ready to be initiated; therefore "this trust is

Good fortune that is a blessing from heaven is

mutual." They break down those who need breaking down, so "it bodes

beneficial to all.

well to be awesome." In the sense that they guide people with basic good-

THE IMAGE: ness, "aspirations are aroused through faith." The way they break down The noble good fortune of great possession is

a blessing from heaven. people in bad states is "easy, free from preparations."

The top yang represents manifestation as a realized buddha, wherefor

This tells how good fortune from heaven is beneficial to all, most abun- "the good fortune of blessings from heaven is beneficial for all." This is what

dantly, but it does not tell how to bring good fortune. Could there be no way is known as appearing as a guide based on the ultimate truth.

to explain it? It must be because the way to bring good fortune is remote. In terms of progressive practice of educational method, the first yang rep-

Confucius said that what heaven helps is obedience, and what people help resents taking up the study of discipline, whereby one does not associate

is trust. Acting on trust and conscientiously obeying the order of nature is with aberrated mental states.

also the reason for respecting the wise. Therefore the good fortune that is a The second yang represents taking up the study of concentration, whereby

blessing from heaven is beneficial to all. one includes all truths in meditation without fail.

Trust, obedience, and respect for the wise—these are the qualities repre- The third yang represents taking up the study of knowledge, whereby one

sented by the fifth yin here. What is easy and needs no preparation is the can get through to the ruler. This knowledge cuts through emotional under- 76 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 15. Humility 77



standings of the ordinary and the holy, sweeps away emptiness, and washes lowly, goes upward. The way of heaven diminishes the full and

away existence; people who misapprehend emptiness make a pretext of enhances the humble. The way of earth changes the full and

having this knowledge. So even the slightest error means enormous devia- spreads humility. Spirits injure the full and bless the humble.

tion; small people cannot use this knowledge and would only be harmed if The way of humans is to dislike the full and like the humble.

they tried. Humility is noble yet enlightened, low yet unsurpassable. This

The fourth yang represents taking up the teaching of universal relativity, is the conclusion of leaders.

according to which everything is conditional and has no inherent being of its

own. This is the introduction to the methods of collective enlightenment, so In Buddhist terms, this refers to the infinity of the vows of enlightening be-

it "negates self-inflation." Though in the practice of this teaching people ings. Only when all beings are liberated will the enlightening beings realize

contemplate beginninglessness, just as those striving for individual libera- complete enlightenment themselves; as long as hell is not emptied, they will

tion do, nevertheless they do not experience it in the same way as individual not accept the peace of extinction for themselves.

escapees, so their understanding is clear. Therefore there is basically no fulfillment of either worldly or trans-

The fifth yin represents taking up the teaching through which the count- mundane laws. If you think you are fulfilled, then heaven will diminish you,

less varieties of suffering and release are studied. Here there is a respectful earth will change you, spirits will harm you, people will dislike you.

belief in balance, so "this trust is mutual." Because through this teaching To appear in all states of being with the quality of humility is to manifest

people particularly cultivate activities and understanding that foster en- the nobility of buddhahood; this is of course enlightened. Even if one mani-

lightenment, it is awesome and bodes well. fests the lowliness of a being in hell, still one is unsurpassable.

The top yang stands for taking up the method of complete teaching,

where the whole of nature produces developmental culture and the comple- THE IMAGE: Mountain in the earth—humility. tion of culture is in nature. Therefore the good fortune of blessings from

Leaders assess people and give impartially, by taking

heaven is beneficial to all.

from the abundant and adding to the scarce.



In Buddhist terms, this means taking from the mountain of infinite virtues

of buddhahood to add to the earth of sentient beings, realizing that all be-

ings have the mountain of virtues of buddhahood within them, assessing



= . 15.

Humility people's potentials and what suits them, impartially giving out the bliss of

buddhahood, not letting anyone attain extinction alone.

mountain below, earth above



Humility gets through. A leader has a conclusion. ■ First yin: Extreme humility. It is fortunate if leaders use this

to cross great rivers.

In political terms, this means not being self-satisfied at good fortune when

THE IMAGE: In extreme humility, leaders manage themselves

the earth is at peace and has become a paradise.

with lowliness.

In Buddhist terms, this means still being impartial and respectful to all

people after the true way has gone into action.

This is excess of humility. There is no use for this but to cross great rivers.

In terms of contemplating mind, this means returning to nonacquisitive- There is great difficulty, and one cannot effect this function unless one re-

ness on fulfilling enlightenment.

strains oneself profoundly. Managing oneself means developing oneself until

All of these are ways through to success; this is how leaders conclude

one can act.

what they have begun, the conclusion being in accord with the beginning.

This can be called the result permeating the source of the cause.

■ 2 yin: Expressing humility is good if correct.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Humility gets through. The way of THE IMAGE: Expressing humility is good if correct in the sense

heaven, descending to save, radiates light. The way of earth, of attainment in the heart.

78 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 15. Humility 79



This is the expression of humility to harmonize with the humility of those This is claiming sympathy with the humility of the workers and achievers

who work selflessly for others; it is correct insofar as it comes from one's represented by the third yang, but actually only putting on an appearance of

true nature.

humility and not really being humble. For this reason few will accept you,

so even if you have a country, there will be rebellion. But even though the



■ reality of humility is not there, the name of humility is there, so those who 3 yang: Leaders who work and achieve yet are humble have an

auspicious conclusion. rebel will not gain the advantage; the attacker will profit.



THE IMAGE: The people submit to leaders who work and The six lines may also he interpreted in Buddhist terms, in two senses: in

achieve yet are humble. terms of characteristics of buddhahood, and in terms of people involved in

Buddhism in some way.

Those who work and achieve yet are not overbearing, who are successful but

First, in terms of characteristics of buddhahood, the first yin represents

do not congratulate themselves, are those who have attained complete

manifestation of spiritual descent into the womb and subsequent birth on

humility.

earth. Because a buddha has already realized birthlessness long ago, yet still

manifests birth, this is called "managing oneself with lowliness."

■ 4 yin: Beneficial to all, the exercise of humility. The second yin represents manifestation of renunciation of social status.

Buddhas are already liberated from birth and death, yet they say they are

THE IMAGE: Beneficial to all, the exercise of humility— leaving behind their social status because of birth and death. This is "ex-

this is the way it is supposed to be. pressing humility."

The third yang represents manifestation of overcoming demons and at-

Being above those who are successful yet humble, as represented in the

taining enlightenment. Buddhas have already transcended the realm of de-

third yang, yet being correctly flexible and agreeable, is beneficial to all and

mons and realized great enlightenment, yet they manifest these accomplish-

is the exercise of humility. Exercising humility toward the humble is truly

ments for the benefit of other beings, to cause those who observe this to

the way it is supposed to be.

accept it in their hearts.

The fourth yin represents manifestation of reflection after enlightenment.

■ 5 yin: Not rich, employing the neighbors, it is beneficial in Buddhas already perceived potentials and set up teachings accordingly; this

invasion and attack; all will profit. is "the way it should be."

The fifth yin represents manifestation of activation of teachings. Origi-

THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to invade and attack in the sense of nally there is no real teaching; all teachings are beneficial techniques, provi-

overcoming the unruly. sionally demonstrated: so the buddhas are "not rich." All buddhas can in-

voke the testimony of all other buddhas, since reality is one, so this is

The fifth yin represents neither pride nor humility; it is in the center. There-

"employing the neighbors." Buddhas break through people's confusions to

fore the five aspects of humility represented by the other lines are all its ser-

enable them to return to inherent enlightened qualities and obey them, so

vants. But if you look for what makes it able to employ these five aspects of

"it is beneficial to invade and attack."

humility, there is nothing; so it is "not rich, employing the neighbors." Ulti-

The top yin represents manifestation of' extinction. Because people's po-

mately, invasion and attack do not destroy humility, so "it is beneficial in

tential is exhausted, the response to it dies out; this is "the aspiration not

invasion and attack." All work for it, so "all will profit." Overcoming the un-

attained." But buddhas actually do perform buddha-work by extinction, in

ruly is humility in the sense of taking away excess.

that they cause people who have not yet planted roots of goodness to plant

them, they cause people who have planted roots of goodness to mature

■ Top yin: Expressing humility, one profits from military them, and they cause mature people to be emancipated; this is "attacking

operations attacking the country. the country."

Now, in terms of people involved in Buddhism, the first yin represents

THE IMAGE: Expressing humility, the aspiration has not been novices, who "manage themselves with lowliness." The second yin repre-

attained; one can use military operations to attack the country. sents initiates who preserve the teaching; this is "expressing humility, good

80 16. Joy 81 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



if correct." The third yang represents initiates who spread the teaching, in mobilizing the army. All those who have first attained the joy and bliss of

charge of the mystic order; they are therefore "leaders who work and ways to enlightenment should do this.

achieve yet are humble."



The fourth yin represents outside protectors, who always humbly defer to THE In joy, strength responds and its will OVERALL JUDGMENT:

all initiates in all phases of practice; this is "exercising humility," which is

is carried out. Acting obediently is joy; joy acts obediently,

"the way it should be." The fifth yin represents higher desires that protect

so even heaven and earth conform to it, to say nothing of

the teaching, whereby it is possible to crush aberration and reveal sanity,

setting up rulers and mobilizing the army. Heaven and earth

thus "conquering the unruly." The top yin represents higher states in the

act obediently, so the sun and moon are not excessive, the

realm of form and the formless realm; though they also protect sanity and four seasons are not out order. Sages act obediently, so of crush aberration, yet as there is no sign of anger in meditation trances in

punishments are clear and the people accept. The duty of the

these realms, it is impossible to carry out liberative practices that involve

ti me of joy is great.

breaking down illusions. So "the aspiration is not attained."

Each of the sixty-four hexagrams of the I Ching represents a time, and every

ti me has its duty, and the duty must be important; this does not apply only

in the time of joy, but in a time of joy it is easy to get lazy and careless, so

special mention of duty is made here.

16. In Buddhist terms, when one only acts obediently, action is therefore al- Joy

ways obedient. This means that in the cultivation that is produced in accord

earth below, thunder above with essential nature, the completion of cultivation after all lies in essential



Joy. nature. Is the duty of time not great? It is beneficial to set up rulers and mobilize the army.



In political terms, this is when an enlightened ruler deals with the people When thunder emerges, the earth stirs—joy. Thus THE IMAGE:

humbly, so that those above and those below are pleased with each other. did the kings of yore make music to honor virtue, offering it in

In terms of Buddhist influence, this is when methods of enlightenment abundance to God, thereby to share it with their ancestors.

are popularly carried out and people rejoice with each other.

In terms of contemplating mind, this is the realization of the truth that In Buddhist terms, making music is like the natural playing of holy songs as

nothing is as pictured by the imagination, and the experience of indescrib- in the scriptures. Honoring virtue is beautifying nature by cultivation. Offer-

able bliss. ing it in abundance to God refers to the inherent essential nature that is the

In politics, once there is joy, it will not do to forget cultural affairs and original source, here called "God." Ancestors are the enlightened ones of

military preparedness, so it is appropriate to "set up rulers" so as to dissemi- the past.

nate good influences, and to "mobilize the army" to be prepared for the

unexpected.

Once methods of enlightenment are in practice, it will not do to forget ■ First yin: Trumpeting joy bodes ill.



instruction, guidance, admonition, and exhortation, so it is appropriate to Trumpeting joy bodes ill when the aspiration reaches THE IMAGE:

set up rulers to direct the influence of enlightenment, and to mobilize the

an impasse.

army to prevent the beginnings of decadence.

When people have personally experienced the joy of truth, it will not do When prosperity reaches a climax, there must be decline; when happiness

to neglect transformation guidance of others, so it is appropriate to set up culminates, there must be suffering. In joy it is necessary to be careful, so the

rulers to deal with other people, and mobilize the army to overcome people's six lines have a lot of warnings. This is also the message of the judgment,

delusions. about setting up rulers and mobilizing the army.

Also, the practice of insight is like setting up a ruler, while practical activi- The first yin harmonizes with the fourth yang above and rejoices in this;

ties are like mobilizing the army. having no real qualities in oneself, only aspiring to cleave to others, how can

Creating good is also like setting up a ruler, while destroying evil is like one not come to an impasse?

82 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 16. Joy 83



■ 2 yin: Firm as a rock, not procrastinating, correctness bodes well. ■ Top yin: Oblivious in joy, what has come about changes.

There is no blame.

THE IMAGE: Not procrastinating, correctness bodes well, because

it is balanced in the right way. THE IMAGE: Oblivion in joy is at the top. What can last?



This yin, in between two other yi p s, stands for the ultimate of darkness and When joy reaches oblivion, it is time to stop. Any situation that has come

stillness; using darkness to observe light, using stillness to observe activity, about must inevitably change. Due to the change, you get through it; when

one can see what will happen. there is oblivion, you stop it. Thus you may avoid error.

Being "firm as a rock" is the accomplishment of stillness, "not pro-

crastinating" is the accomplishment of activity. Knowing the results of ac-

In terms of Buddhism, the fourth yang represents the person who teaches

tivity and inactivity is what is called knowing the potential of the moment.

in the Buddha's stead; the other lines represent disciples.

The first yin is not balanced, not correct, depending on the bountiful pro-

■ tection of great people and forgetting the work of spiritual cultivation and 3 yin: Looking up in joy, repent. If too late, there is regret.

realization. Therefore the outlook is bad.

THE IMAGE: Looking up in joy, there is regret, because the The second yin represents flexible obedience being balanced and correct,

position is not appropriate. able to instantly understand phenomena, arrive at principles, and embrace

the concrete and abstract worlds in the mind. The inner reality cannot be

The third yin also represents one who lacks real qualities finding joy in look-

changed. Understanding all at once, observing all at once, one does not need

ing up to another; this presents an opportunity to repent and reform one-

much time, and so does not procrastinate. This line represents those who

self. If repentance and reform are too late, then there is regret.

skillfully cultivate the mind and attain a true way of enlightenment, so the

outlook is good.

■ The third yin also represents one who is unbalanced and incorrect. Al- 4 yang: Being the source of joy, there is great gain.

Do not doubt. Companions gather. though one can look up in joy and have some sense of repentance and re-

form, because of being near a strict teacher, yet there is a lack of decisiveness

THE IMAGE: and courage; thus there is the warning that if one is too late, one will have Being the source of joy, there is great gain—

the aspiration is carried out greatly. regrets.

The fourth yang is the master of the hexagram. This represents concentra-

This represents the strength that is a source of joy to the weak who are un- tion and insight evenly balanced, accomplishing the enlightenment of one-

balanced. As for those who are weak but balanced, they keep their up- self and others. Therefore companions firmly trust one, and one's aspiration

rightness, so do not doubt them. If you do not doubt them, then your is carried out greatly.

association will grow stronger. The fifth yin represents weak and warped people who nevertheless are in

positions socially above enlightened teachers and good companions; they



■ are incurable, so they have a "persistent illness." Nevertheless, as long as

5 yin: Chaste in illness, one never dies.

they are in a position of balance, there is still some faith in them, and the

THE roots of goodness in them are not cut off, so they "never die." IMAGE: Being chaste in illness means riding on firmness.

Never dying means not losing balance. The top yin represents people who are flexible yet upright; at the end of

joy, people cannot avoid attaining realization sinking into emptiness, but be-

The second and fifth lines represent balance, so neither gets addicted to joy; cause of the power of their original vows to help others, they still do not

therefore they are chaste. However, the second yin is far from the fourth ultimately enter nirvana. Therefore they are able to turn individual libera-

yang, which is correct, so both action and inaction are always appropriate. tion into means of collective liberation, so there is change that is blameless. If

The fifth yin rides on the strength of the fourth yang, which is not correct, so they remained in nirvana, they would become stagnant, so this cannot last.

it produces illness. However, this is better than inwardly losing self-control

and seeking joy outside.

86 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 18. Degeneration 87

amusement. This is a path that must inevitably come to an impasse. Only by

The second yin represents recessive flexibility that is balanced and correct, a

good partner for the fifth yang, which represents positive firmness that is the power of sincere faith, directed toward the west, which in Buddhist

terms means the western paradise of Amitabha, the land of ultimate hap-

balanced and correct.

piness, is it possible for anyone who cultivates this dedication to go there.



■ Top yin: In a binding involvement, the king sacrifices on the

western mountain.



THE IMAGE: This is the upper impasse of involvement. Is. Degeneration



Recessive flexibility that is correct, dwelling at the culmination of following, wind below, mountain above wholeheartedly trusts the balanced strength represented by the fifth yang,

and forms a firm association. Thereby it is possible to get through to spiri- From degeneration comes great development.

tual illumination. However, it ultimately comes to an impasse and is not suf- It is beneficial to cross a great river.

ficient to act on. Three days before, three days after.



Degeneration is like when a vessel is not used for a long time and begins to

In terms of Buddhism, the three yangs all represent those who are fol- corrode, or like when people indulge in partying for a long time and become

lowed by others, so they illustrate the meaning of following potential. The sick, or when a country is peaceful for a long time and becomes decadent.

three yins all represent those who follow the strong, so they illustrate ways In political terms, this is when rulers and officials gladly go along with

of following teachers. each other and there is no salutary protest, thus bringing about corruption.

The first yang represents strength that is correct but is in a low position. At In Buddhist terms, when the teaching is flourishing and a society gladly

first it seems as if there is no desire to help people, so there must be a change goes along with it, there will inevitably be people who join Buddhist organi-

for there to be a good outlook; there will be accomplishment if one in this zations for the wrong reasons, with personal ambitions. Because of this the

state is outgoing. organizations become corrupt.

The fourth yang represents strength that is not correct but is in a superior In terms of the ultimate following of contemplating mind, this is mani-

position. Though one in this state may take on the responsibility of spread- festation of unhealthy behavior out of compassion and becoming degenerate

ing the teaching, there seems to be personal ambition involved, so there is

because of this.

gain, but this bodes ill, even though the teaching may be correct. One must In terms of the minor following first attained in contemplating mind, this

firmly believe in the true way out of the mundane; then the matter of mind

is when one has not yet cut off confusion, or when one develops religious

can finally be clarified. attachment following the path, or when past habits arise in meditation, and

The fifth yang represents firm strength that is balanced and correct, help-

one degenerates because of this.

ing oneself and helping others. Therefore there is truthfulness in good, Nevertheless, since order is the start of disorder, disorder can also be used

which bodes well. to bring about order; therefore there is reason for great success. But it is im-

The second yin represents flexible obedience that is balanced and correct, possible to remedy degeneration and decadence without great courage and

yet has no power of insight; thus it does not escape giving up the universal strength, like that needed to cross a great river.

and taking to the individual. Therefore one should renew oneself "three days before" and be on the

The third yin is not balanced and not correct, yet there is the power of alert "three days after," before one can withdraw accumulated degeneration

insight, so it is possible to give up the individual and take to the universal. and eventually preserve good aims. However, even though one may be said to give up the individual, this does

not mean that one can look lightly upon individual self-criticism and fail to

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In degeneration, strength is above,

remain upright.

The top yin represents recessive flexibility that is correct, but still has no weakness below. Pliancy with stopping; this is degeneration.

power of insight, concentrating on cultivating the joy of meditation for self - In degeneration there is great development, whereby the



18. Degeneration 89

88 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



world is ordered. It is beneficial to cross a great river; going ■ 2 yang: Dealing with the degeneration of the mother,

forth, there is something to do. Three days before, three days it will not do to be righteous.

after—the end thus has a beginning, the activity of heaven.

THE IMAGE: Dealing with the degeneration of the mother is

The trigram mountain, which is strong and represents stopping, is above; it attaining balance.

stops above and has no light to help those below. The hexagram wind, which

The yin nature is comfortable when there is nothing to do, and dislikes

is weak and represents pliancy, is below; it rests below and has no virtue to

doing anything, so dealing with the degeneration of the mother is most diffi-

go higher. This represents those above and below taking it easy, just enjoying

cult. If you correct her, you injure love, but if you do not correct her you

the leisure of the moment, unaware of the gradual fermentation of troubles

injure justice. It can only be done by someone who is actually strong but is

ahead.

not adamant.

Only if people know the gradual process of accumulating degeneration

can they set up means of rescue, so that the world can be set in order; how

can they sit there and do nothing, as though the world will order itself? It is ■ 3 yang: Dealing with the degeneration of the father,

necessary to go do something, like "crossing a river," as it were. And it there is a little regret, but no great blame.

is necessary to understand how the activity of heaven has an end and a

beginning. Dealing with the degeneration of the father, THE IMAGE:

This applies to political affairs, to Buddhism, to education, and to con- in the end there is no blame.

templating mind.

The quality represented by the third yang is no different from that of the

second yang, but here one does not know how to use it. The second yang

THE IMAGE: Wind in the mountains—degeneration. uses it flexibly, the third uses it adamantly; therefore there is a little regret

Leaders thus arouse the people to nurture virtue. but no great blame.



Arousing the people is like wind, nurturing virtue is like mountains. The

people cannot be sufficiently aroused without nurturing virtue, and virtue ■ 4 yin: Indulging the degeneration of the father,

cannot be sufficiently nurtured without arousing the people. This means the if you go on you will experience shame.

twin action of compassion and wisdom, seeking to rise higher while educat-

THE IMAGE: Indulging the degeneration of the father,

ing those who are lower.

if you go on you will not attain anything.



■ This represents weakness and lack of virtue, whereby one can increase the First yin: Dealing with the degeneration of the father,

if there is a child, the late father has no blame. degeneration of the father by indulging it.

It is dangerous but turns out well.



THE IMAGE: ■ 5 yin: Dealing with the degeneration of the father, Dealing with the degeneration of the father means

the action is praised.

consciously taking up after the late father.



THE IMAGE: Dealing with the father, the action is praised,

Degeneration does not take place all at once; it becomes apparent only with

the passage of generations. Therefore it is expressed in terms of father and because one takes up after him with virtue.

child. The first yin is in the beginning of degeneration, when deterioration is

Here flexibility is in balance and one can deal with degeneration well. This is

not yet serious; if there is a wise child, the dead father can escape blame. But

taking up after one's predecessors with reviving virtues.

it is necessary to be wary of danger, so that things may turn out well. And

the way to deal with degeneration requires that one consciously take up

after the father, and not take up after the father's deeds. ■ Top yang: Not serving kings or lords, one makes one's concerns

loftier.



90 19. Overseeing 91 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



THE IMAGE: Not serving kings or lords, one's will can serve as a

model.

19. Overseeing

To discuss the six lines in terms of politics, the first is like a wise citizen, the

second is like a cultured official, the third is like a wise general, the fourth is lake below, earth above

like a scheming official, the fifth is like a wise king, the sixth is like a righ-

Overseeing is very successful, beneficial if correct.

teous dissident.

If you go on until the eighth month, there will be

In terms of the promulgation of Buddhism, the bottom three lines are like

misfortune.

outside protectors, the top three lines are like inside protectors. The first yin

is flexible and in a low position; this represents those who exert generosity

In political terms, it is possible to oversee the citizenry after degeneration

to the utmost to obey the Buddha, the Teaching, and the Community. The

has been corrected. In terms of Buddhism, the influence of Buddhism is re-

second yang is strong and balanced; this represents those who protect the

stored after decadence has been reformed. In terms of contemplating mind,

true teaching with the teaching of compassion. The third yang is too strong;

this represents those who protect Buddhism with overwhelming authority. this means getting rid of meditation illnesses and progressively cutting off

delusions; therefore it is very successful.

The fourth yin is flexible yet correct; this represents those who can only

Whether it is politics, Buddhism, or contemplating mind, it is necessary

save themselves and cannot guide others. The fifth yin is flexible and bal-

that the method be correct from beginning to end in order for there to be

anced; this represents those who can guide everyone. The top yang repre-

benefit. If you ride on the momentum of the time and do not know to turn

sents those who practice asceticism and detachment; they seem to have no

back, at a certain point deterioration will inevitably set in, after flourishing

will to teach others, but Buddhism needs such people as models.

has reached its climax, and there will surely be misfortune.

In terms of contemplating mind, the first yin represents those in whom

concentration is originally dominant; this is the degeneration of the father.

But they are in a yang position, so they have the "child" insight; thus there is In overseeing, strength gradually THE OVERALL JUDGMENT:

no blame. However, it is necessary to go through a crisis before it is possible grows. Joyful and harmonious, strength is balanced and

to equalize insight and concentration so that the end turns out well. responsive. Great success in a correct manner is the way of

The second yang represents those in whom insight is originally predomi- nature. In the eighth month there will be misfortune because

nam; this is the degeneration of the mother. But they are in a yin position, waning does not take long.

so they have concentration. However, the reason they attain concentration

is only to foster insight; it will not do to maintain this concentration to Strength gradually grows, so it is called overseeing; joyful and harmonious,

the end. strength is balanced and responsive, so it is very successful. A correct man-

The third yang represents excessive strength that is not balanced, so in- ner means one in harmony with the beneficial consummation of creative

sight turns into degeneration; therefore there is a little regret. But to save the development deriving from the original energy of the universe; this is the

world from decadence it is essential to rely on the power of insight, so there original quality of inherent power.

is no great blame. If you let things go too long and do not prevent reversal early on, then

The fourth yin represents excessive weakness, inability to develop insight; there will surely be misfortune, because whatever grows must wane, as a

if one goes on this way, one will not avoid becoming conceited about one's natural matter of course. Only those who cultivate themselves to conform to

essence can direct the course of nature and not be caused to wax and wane

meditation experiences, and so should be ashamed.

The fifth yin represents flexibility in balance; concentration has equiva- by nature.

lent insight, so one will surely see the way.



The top yang represents insight with equivalent concentration, whereby There is earth above a body of water. Leaders THE IMAGE:

one immediately enters into effortlessness; so one "does not serve kings or use inexhaustibility of education and thought to embrace and

lords" and "makes one's concerns loftier." This means not resting in the protect the people without bound. ranks of the enlightened; therefore "the will can serve as a model."

The body of water stands for the oceans; the earth supports beings, the oceans

support the earth. This is the embrace and protection of the inexhaustible.

92 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 20. Observing 93



In terms of Buddhism, inexhaustibility of education and thought is like an However, if you are flexible and intelligent, you will be able to take stock of

ocean, whereby it is possible to be a teacher of the worlds; embracing and yourself and change; then there will be no blame.

protecting without bound is like earth, whereby it is possible to be a com-



passionate parent of all beings. ■ 4 yin: Consummate overseeing is impeccable.



■ THE IMAGE: Consummate overseeing that is impeccable is in First yang: Sensitive overseeing is good when correct.

the right place.

THE IMAGE: Sensitive overseeing is good when correct, because

In Buddhist terms, this represents using correct concentration correspond-

the intention and the action are correct.

ing to correct insight; therefore it is consummate overseeing.

In political terms, to correct degeneration it is important to be firm and



brave; to oversee the populace it is important to be human and flexible. ■ 5 yin: Knowing overseeing, appropriate for a great leader,

In Buddhist terms, to get rid of decadence it is appropriate to overwhelm

bodes well.

it and break it down; to guide people it is appropriate to be compassionate



and accommodating. What is appropriate for a great leader is balance THE IMAGE:

In terms of contemplating mind, to get rid of ills it is appropriate to apply

in action.

the power of insight; to penetrate noumenon it is appropriate to apply the

power of concentration. In Buddhist terms, this is concentration with insight, corresponding to the

The first yang represents strength gradually growing, so it is called sen- insight with concentration represented by the first yang; this is what is called

sitive overseeing. The warning that it is only good if correct is given lest the sovereign samadhi. The way of balance comprehends all things, so it is

strength be allowed to become excessive. said to be appropriate for a great leader.



■ 2 yang: Sensitive overseeing is good, beneficial all around. ■ Top yin: Attentive overseeing is good and blameless.



THE IMAGE: "Sensitive overseeing is good, beneficial all THE IMAGE: The good of attentive overseeing is in the will

around"—this is addressed to those who are not yet in harmony being within.

with the universal order.

This represents flexible harmony that is correctly oriented, at the end of

The second yang is also in the momentum of gradually increasing strength, overseeing. In Buddhist terms, once subtle concentration is deep, it naturally

but at this point it is best to keep still and not ride on the momentum to try awakens genuine insight, realizing that there are no objects outside of mind,

to advance; then it will be good and beneficial all around. so that one does not seek anything outside mind. This is referred to as the

If it is not good, then some will not benefit. This comes about because will being within, so the will is blameless.

riding on momentum to try to advance is not in harmony with the universal

order, according to which great success comes about through application of

proper manner.



== 20. Observing

■ 3 yin: Presumptuous overseeing is of no benefit, but if you

trouble over it, there will be no blame. earth below, wind above



Observing, having washed the hands but not presented

THE IMAGE: Presumptuous overseeing is out of place.

the offering, there is sincerity that is reverent.

Once you trouble over it, blame will not last long.



If you are weak but your will is adamant, you eagerly try to advance, becom- In political terms, this represents overseeing the people benevolently and

ing presumptuous in overseeing without realizing there is no benefit in this. being admired by them.

94 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 20. Observing 95



In Buddhist terms, this means helping people by influencing them rightly THE IMAGE: Wind travels over the earth—observing.

and being trusted by everyone. Kings of yore examined the regions and observed the people

In terms of contemplating mind, this means that progressive cultivation to to set up education.

cut off delusion requires the use of subtle observation.

In Buddhist terms, the ancient Buddhas examined the "regions" of possible

But when you make your spirit and will always like one who has washed

experience and observed the people in various states of being, then set up

the hands but not presented the offering, then in both social affairs and

various teachings to accommodate them, just as the wind travels over the

Buddhist affairs, helping yourself and helping others, "there is sincerity that

earth reaching everywhere.

is reverent," worthy of respect.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: The great observed on high, ■ First yin: Naive observation is blameless in undeveloped people

harmonious, shows the world balance and rectitude. Observing, but shameful in developed people. having washed the hands but not presented the offering, there

is sincerity that is reverent. Those below observe it and are THE IMAGE: The naive observation represented by the first yin

transformed. Observing the spiritual way of heaven, the four is the way of underdeveloped people.

seasons are orderly. Sages use the spiritual way to establish

Those who are weak and lowly cannot see far, so they are ignorant like chil-

education, and all the world accepts.

dren. When undeveloped people are like children, this is not considered

Positive strength on high shows the world the virtues of balance and rec- bad, but if developed people are like children, there is no way to govern na-

titude, harmonious and agreeable; therefore it is as in a ceremony when one tions and bring peace to earth.

has washed the hands but not yet presented the offering; sincerity built up



within shows outwardly, so that people understand it without anything ■ 2 yin: Peeking observation is beneficial for a woman's chastity. being said about it.

That which is sacred and unknowable is called spiritual. Heaven does not

THE IMAGE: Peeking observation and the chastity of a woman

say anything, but the four seasons go on, unfathomably; therefore it is called

can also be shameful.

the spiritual way. People establish education on this pattern, which all follow

without knowing why. This refers to observing from within; this may be appropriate for women

The spirit is truthfulness, truthfulness is sincerity, sincerity is the heart of who stay at home, but not for men in charge of civil affairs.

humanity. The heart of humanity is basically harmonious, docile, balanced,

and upright; mind impresses mind, so there is spontaneous acceptance

without the need to present an offering. ■ 3 yin: Observing personal growth, advancing and

In Buddhist terms, "the great observed" refers to the subtle observation of withdrawing.

the absolute; "on high" refers to transcendence of all unenlightened states of

mind. "Harmonious" means not deviating from essential nature, and being THE IMAGE: Observing personal growth, advancing and

omnipresent in all phenomena. "Balance" means not falling into either ex- withdrawing, one has not lost the way.

treme of samsara or nirvana; "rectitude" means simultaneous awareness of

Advancing to carry out the way, withdrawing to cultivate the way, if one can

the ultimate truth and the conventional truth, without missing anything.

observe personal growth, then one will not lose the way whether advancing

In politics, the citizens are "those below." In Buddhism, unenlightened

or withdrawing.

states of mind are "those below." In contemplating mind, all auxiliary meth-

ods to foster enlightenment are "those below."

The "spiritual way of heaven" is inherent virtue, which includes the four ■ 4 yin: Observing the glory of the country, it is beneficial to be a

qualities of eternity, happiness, selfhood, and purity; like the four seasons, guest of the king.

these are orderly. "Using the spiritual way to establish education" refers to

complete teaching that is in accord with essential nature; therefore it is ulti- THE IMAGE: Observing the glory of the country is esteeming

mately accepted by those in all realms of consciousness. guesthood.

96 THE BUDDHIST I CH1NG 21. Biting Through 97



Flexible yet upright, secretly approaching the king, one may well carry out The second represents intellectual buddhahood, which is like a woman

the duty of a visiting teacher. without real wisdom.

The third represents contemplative buddhahood, which is just observing

one's own mind.

■ 5 yang: Observing personal growth, developed people are The fourth represents semblance buddhahood, close to the real state.

i mpeccable. The fifth represents partial realization of buddhahood, helping oneself

and helping others.

THE IMAGE: Observing personal growth means observing the

The top line represents ultimate buddhahood, not grasping nirvana, ob-

people.

serving all beings in the cosmos, manifesting compassion and innocence.

The path of developed people is to cultivate themselves seriously and to re-

gard the faults of others as their own.



■ Top yang: Observing the growth, developed people are 21. Biting Through

i mpeccable.

thunder below, fire above

THE IMAGE: Observing the growth, the mind is not yet at peace.

Biting through is successful. It is beneficial to apply justice.

In the position of a teacher and protector, one is observed by everyone; only

developed people can be impeccable. Once one is observed by everyone, In political terms, this means quelling disruptive influences. In Buddhist

that makes for consciousness of being observed, so that one cannot be lazy; terms, this means correcting the immoral. In terms of contemplating mind,

therefore the mind is not yet at peace. this means using subtle observation to overcome afflictions, compulsive hab-

its, sicknesses, delusions, pride in meditation, and opinionated views, as

they arise in contemplation. All of these are types of success in which it is

To interpret the six lines in Buddhist terms, the first represents the naive

beneficial to apply justice.

observation of those pursuing false paths, who have aberrant intellects.

The second represents ordinary people; theirs is "peeking observation," in

that they indulge in meditation to the point of addiction. THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: There is something between the jaws;

The third represents people with the potential for personal liberation; for this is called biting through. In biting through successfully, the

them, "advance" means practicing ways of transcendence, "withdrawal" hard and soft are proportionate. Active and clear, thunder and

means opting for individual salvation. lightning join and stand out. Flexibility attains balance and

The fourth represents the initiatory phase of the general teaching for col- moves upward; though it is not in place, it beneficially applies

lective liberation, which can lead into particularized and complete teachings justice.

for collective liberation; therefore "it is beneficial to be a guest of the king."

The fifth represents people with the potential for the complete teaching; The way of kings is to use just laws to nurture the country. The method of

therefore "observing oneself is observing the people." This is what is re- Buddhism is to use correct education to nurture the community. Con-

ferred to in Buddhism as the nondifferentiation of mind, Buddha, and all templating mind uses subtle insight to nurture the spiritual body. All of these

beings. are represented by the jaws. When recalcitrant people become set in their

The top line represents people with the potential for the particularized ways, they need to be corrected. When Buddhist practitioners are un-

teaching. Going beyond both the absolute and the relative by way of central disciplined, they need to be corrected. When states arise in the practice of

balance, true being-as-is rests high in the state of fruition. Because of focus stopping and seeing, they need to be examined. All of these are represented

on the particular rather than the essence that is the same in all phenomena, by "there is something."

"the mind is not yet at peace." When "the hard and the soft are proportionate," concentration and in-

To interpret the six lines in terms of contemplating mind, the first repre- sight are equal. "Active and clear," one works without the light of wisdom

sents ideal buddhahood, which is like being a child, without knowledge. being obscured. "Thunder and lightning join and stand out" in the sense

98 21. Biting Through 99 THE BUDDHIST l CHING



that speech and silence help each other. Thunder is like expounding the ■ 3 yin: Biting dried meat, finding poison, there is a little shame,

teaching; lightning is like going into concentration and radiating light. but no blame.

In this hexagram, the second and fifth lines, the positions of balance, arc

both yin, representing flexibility; therefore "flexibility attains balance." This THE IMAGE: Finding poison means the position is not

appropriate.

is subtle concentration on the center of all things. As for "moving upward,"



thunder has the image of bursting forth, and fire has the image of reaching At the top of the lower trigram, this represents the gradual deepening of

toward the sky. faults. Also, as yin is in a yang position, this represents having an aberrant

"Although not in place" means that the fifth yin is in a yang position, the

intellect, which is like poison. Obviously this is shameful. However, when

i mage of not having entered into the right state of a bodhisattva. But in con- biting through, one does not commit further error by being presumptuous,

templative practice, concentration and insight are in place, so one can skill- so one can be blameless. fully use nonconceptual observation to control any states that arise.



■ 4 yang: Biting bony dried meat, one finds a metal arrow.

THE IMAGE: Thunder and lightning—biting through. It is beneficial to work hard and be upright. Kings of yore used clear punishments to promulgate the law.

THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to work hard and be upright;

Clear punishments are a means of promulgating the law, just as cutting

one is not yet illumined.

through temporary states is a means of revealing inner qualities.

An animal is shot on a hunt, and the arrow goes into the bone, so that it



■ cannot be pulled out; now, when biting bony dried meat, one finds it and

First yang: Wearing stocks stopping the feet, there is no blame.

should beware of it. This represents faults that have accumulated for a long



THE IMAGE:

"Wearing stocks stopping the feet" means not time. However, being strong without excess, one will surely be able to mas-

ter oneself, so "it is beneficial to work hard and be upright."

acting.



Whether in worldly affairs or Buddhism, "biting through" means biting one- ■ 5 yin: Biting dry meat, finding gold, if one is upright and self and others. In either case, it is necessary to establish control early on

diligent there will be no blame.

and not let matters ferment into something serious. Also, it is necessary to

use hard and soft control appropriately and not let the serious and the light

THE IMAGE: Upright and diligent, blameless—this is finding

get out of proportion. what is appropriate.

The first yang is at the bottom of the hexagram, representing a condition

in which faults are not yet serious. Also, this is a yang position, so yang is Though soft as meat, faults are longstanding; this is like meat that has dried

correct here; therefore it is only like "wearing stocks stopping the feet," out. It is lucky if there is the quality of balance, which is to be valued; this is

which means being able to criticize what is wrong and not to do it, thus like finding gold. Keeping this quality of balance correctly, being diligent

being blameless. and careful, one may return to impeccability.



■ 2 yin: ■ Top yang: Wearing a cangue destroying the ears is unfortunate. Biting through the skin, destroying the nose,

there is no blame.

THE IMAGE: "Wearing a cangue destroying the ears" means not

THE IMAGE: Biting through the skin, destroying the nose, listening clearly.

is riding on strength.

When faults and evils have developed to the point of being irremediable, this

Here flexibility is balanced and correct; faults are easy to correct. Therefore is like wearing a cangue destroying the ears. Generally one comes to this

it is like biting through skin. Because it rides on the strength of the first yang, because one does not listen clearly and does not know how to repent of

faults and take to the good.

therefore it is like destroying the nose.

100 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 22. Adornment 101



To interpret in terms of contemplating mind, the first yang represents im- the hard rises and embellishes the soft, so it is beneficial to go

mediately overcoming a mental state that arises, by using true insight; this is somewhere in a small way. This is the adornment of heaven.

like stopping the feet and not allowing them to walk. Control by civilization is the adornment of humanity. Observe

The second yin represents using correct concentration to overcome a state the adornment of heaven to see the changes of the times;

that has arisen but is not yet deeply rooted. Though what is "bitten through" observe the adornment of humanity to transform and complete

the world.

is not hard, still one cannot help losing one's grip, which is represented by

the word "nose."

The third yin represents states arising with gradually increasing severity, Adornment must succeed, because the lower trigram is basically heaven, but

the second yin comes and embellishes it with softness; so this is substance

and concentrated insight not being purely correct. One cannot help being

with appropriate adornment, or insight with appropriate concentration,

disturbed by these states, but does not get to the point of completely falling

hence success. The upper trigram is basically earth, but the top yang embel-

prey to them.

lishes it with a portion of hardness; so this is adornment with appropriate

The fourth yang represents states arising with a mixture of good and had,

substance, or concentration with appropriate insight, and therefore it is bene-

and concentrated insight not being purely correct. Even though one gets

ficial to go somewhere in a small way.

some small benefit from the teaching, one has not yet realized the profound

Embellishment and substance complement one another; concentration

teaching.

and insight balance one another. This is inherently so, and not something

The fifth yin represents pure development of good states, so that the benefit

forced, so it is called the "adornment of heaven." Embodying insight with

gained from the teaching is also great; but one still has not entered into the

concentration, calm yet ever aware, is "civilization." Embodying concentra-

absolute, so one must still be upright and diligent in order to be impeccable.

tion with insight, aware yet ever calm, is "control." This means using culture

The top yang represents states becoming extremely deep-rooted; there

to unite with nature; this is called the "adornment of humanity."

seems to be concentrated insight, but it is not balanced and not correct. One

Inherent qualities create all possible realms of experience, so by observing

perversely grasps the wrong things and considers them sacred, forever fall-

them one can see the changes of the times. In terms of cultivated qualities,

ing into uninterrupted hell. all possible realms of experience ultimately rest in one mind; therefore by

observing them one can transform and complete the world.



22. Adornment THE IMAGE: There is fire below a mountain, adorning it.

Leaders clarify governmental affairs without presumptuous

fire below, mountain above adjudication.



Adornment is successful. It is beneficial to go somewhere The time of adornment is not the time for adjudication; as long as govern-

in a small way. mental affairs are clear, it is possible thereby to see to it that the people have

no complaints.

In political terms, this means disarming and developing culture after having In Buddhist terms, "there is fire below a mountain" stands for outward

gotten rid of disruptive elements. In terms of Buddhism, this means setting stillness with inward illumination, whereby the "governmental affairs" of

up more regulations after punishing corrupt practitioners. In terms of con- the natures and characteristics of all possible realms of human experience

templating mind, this means adornment with concentration and insight are clarified. Understanding what is right and what is wrong about all

after perfecting observation of the development of mental states. All of these things, one ultimately does not create emotional opinions grasping and re-

are ways to success, but whether in politics or Buddhism, at this time it is not jecting by judging one as right and one as wrong; this is like not making

necessary to do much; it only requires a small application of ordering and "presumptuous adjudication."

adornment.



■ First yang: Adorn the feet; leave the car and walk.

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Adornment is successful. The soft

comes and embellishes the hard, hence success. A portion of THE IMAGE: Leave the car and walk—it is right not to ride.

102 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 23. Stripping Away 103



This represents concealing one's virtues and living a simple life in obscurity, When one is flexible but balanced, and has a positive strong will, one is able

walking instead of riding. This is adorning oneself with righteousness. to know the joys of enlightened virtue and does not pride oneself on power

or position. Rather, one looks upon the honor of exalted rank as equal to

hills and groves, just like the ancient sage-king who ate poor food, wore

■ 2 yin: Adornment is seeking. poor clothing, and lived in a poor house. This is the image of' the regret of

the roll of silk being small; but really one has no complaints and comes to an

THE IMAGE: Adornment is seeking, in the sense of rising with

auspicious end. This is adorning oneself with abundant virtue.

those who are higher.



Flexible docility balanced and correct, one opens one's mind to derive bene- ■ Top yang: Adornment by simplicity is impeccable.

fit from the wise. This is adorning oneself through the agency of teachers

and companions. THE IMAGE: Adornment by simplicity is impeccable.

One attains one's aspiration above.



■ This represents strength under utmost control, growing more illumined as 3 yang: Adorned, luxuriant, perpetual uprightness bodes well.

one gets older, one's qualities becoming pure and flawless. This is adorning

THE IMAGE: The good fortune of perpetual uprightness is that oneself with ultimate goodness.

no one can ever slight you.



Strength that is correct, at the peak of illumination, is sufficient to nurture In terms of Buddhism, the first yang represents adorning oneself with

others and enable them to become wise. This is adorning oneself with generosity, the second yin represents adorning oneself with discipline, the

teacherhood. third yang represents adorning oneself with patience, the fourth yin repre-

sents adorning oneself with perseverance, the fifth yin represents adorning

oneself with concentration, the top yang represents adorning oneself with

■ 4 yin: Adorned plainly, a white horse runs swiftly. wisdom.

They are not enemies, but partners. Also, the first yang represents adornment with an ideal, not letting inher-

ent qualities displace cultivated qualities. The second yin represents adorn-

THE IMAGE: The fourth yin, in its place, doubts.

ment with intellectual understanding, from this determining to progress to

They are not enemies but partners, and ultimately bear no

higher development. The third yang represents adornment with contempla-

grudge. tion practice, not forgetting it for a moment. The fourth yin represents

adornment with conformity, not dwelling on religious attachment. The fifth

When flexible and correct, one knows that adornment with plainness is

yin represents adornment with partial realization, not missing the absolute

valuable, and so seeks the wise tirelessly. One approaches teachers, corre-

truth, conventional truth, or the center of balance. The top yang represents

sponds with the righteous, and looks up to the perfected; all of them are

adornment with ultimate realization, returning to the original essential na-

one's enlightened teachers and companions. Sincere students and those full

ture, which has not the slightest flaw.

of virtue are also helpful associates. Seeing the wise, one thinks of how to be

equal to them; seeing the unwise, one reflects on oneself. How can there be

enmity? And being in a low position among those on the ascendant, though

rising one can still lower oneself, and does not presume to believe in oneself

or act arbitrarily. This is adorning oneself with an open mind. 23. Stripping Away



earth below, mountain above

■ 5 yin: Adornment in the hills and groves. The roll of silk is

Stripping away, it is not beneficial to go anywhere.

small. There is regret, but the end is auspicious.



THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about the fifth yin is that THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Stripping away is overthrowing. The

there is joy. weak changes the strong. It is not beneficial to go anywhere, 104 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING 23. Stripping Away 105



because petty people are increasing. Accordingly stopping this Strip a bed of its legs, and there is nowhere to rest the body. The first line is at

is watching the form. Leaders value the process of waxing and the bottom, so it is like stripping away the legs. In political terms, this refers

waning, filling and emptying; this is the action of heaven. to bad citizens. In Buddhism, this refers to bad sanctuary keepers. In con-

templating mind, this refers to removing the foundation of discipline.

In political terms, after disarmament and development of culture, people

In a positive sense, this is stripping away the causes of miserable states.

tend to indulge in comfort, leading to the inevitable decline of the basic en-

But if there were no miserable states, then great compassion would have

ergy of the country.

no object of focus; hence the warning that destroying uprightness brings

In Buddhist terms, when there are too many regulations, this inevitably misfortune.

defeats real practice.

In terms of contemplating mind, there is a positive sense and a negative

sense. The positive sense is that after concentrated insight is developed, the ■ 2 yin: Stripping a bed of its frame, destroying uprightness

"skin" of the ego is stripped away and true reality alone remains. The nega- brings misfortune.

tive sense is that mundane imitation of concentration and insight can de-

velop mundane intellect and ability, but the essential practice of real cultiva- THE IMAGE: Stripping a bed of its frame, there is nothing to

tion will be overcome by this. work with.

Leaving the positive sense aside for the moment, here we are talking

In political terms, this refers to bad officials. In Buddhism, this refers to bad

about the negative sense. That is, it is not beneficial to go anywhere, whether

patrons. In contemplating mind, this refers to eliminating meditation con-

in terms of worldly or transcendental affairs. Now, when it says it is not bene-

centration; without concentration, the mind is scattered and cannot deal

ficial to go anywhere, this does not mean taking a laissez-faire attitude to-

with truth, so "there is nothing to work with."

ward stripping away; it refers to subtle work toward restoration. To go on

In positive terms, this is stripping away unfocused virtue. But if there were

would result in stripping away; not to go is to accordingly stop this. This is

no unfocused virtue at all, then there would be no way to accommodate and

how to restore the full cycle of the process of waxing and waning, filling and

guide people; hence again the warning that destroying uprightness brings

emptying, so as to accord with the action of heaven.

misfortune.



THE IMAGE: Mountains cleave to the earth. Those above secure

their homes by kindness to those below. ■ 3 yin: Stripping away without fault.



In political terms, this means rulers need people; if the people are satisfied, THE IMAGE: Stripping away without fault loses above and below.

the rulers should be satisfied. Therefore they can only secure their homes by

In politics, this refers to a leader who mixes in among the populace, un-

kindness to those below. This is the best strategy for saving oneself from

beknownst to them. In Buddhism, this refers to outside protectors who have

being overthrown.

true insight. In contemplating mind, this refers to stripping away knowledge.

In terms of contemplating mind, this means that the work of higher devel-

Stripping away knowledge means not being attached to knowledge, so one

opment must be understood from right where you stand.

In Buddhist terms, the six lines show how both laypeople and initiates are can effect accomplishment through this defeat, cutting through dualism and

"losing above and below."

caught up in personal ambitions, from which only the wise are aloof.

In positive terms, this is stripping away addictive meditation and ignorant

In terms of contemplating mind, they show how when cultivated good is

concentration in the realms of form and formlessness, thereby getting to be

completely destroyed, inherent good alone is never destroyed.

without fault.



■ First yin: Stripping a bed of its legs, destroying uprightness

brings misfortune. ■ 4 yin: Stripping a bed to the skin brings misfortune.



THE IMAGE: THE IMAGE: Stripping a bed of its legs is destroying the Stripping a bed to the skin is getting very

foundation. close to disaster.



10 6 24. Return 107 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



The lower trigram is like a bed; the upper trigram is like a body. When strip- True leaders realize this, and thus attain enlightenment; petty people pre-

ping away reaches even to the skin on the body, it is irremediable. sume on this, and thus become so arrogant that they try to displace real

In politics, this is when the chief executive is bad. In Buddhism, this sages.

is when the initiates are bad. In contemplating mind, this is denying all Also, in positive terms, this also points out to the unchangeability and

causality. indestructibility of inherent qualities. If you can awaken to inherent quali-

In positive terms, this is stripping away the ways that people enter into ties, then you will fulfill all Buddhist teachings right then and there; so "the

reality for individual liberation. But if there were no absolute reality, there leader gets a vehicle." But if you cling to inherence and neglect cultivation,

would be no way to leave samsara and be unaffected by the ills of the world; you will fall into had tendencies; so "the petty person is stripped of a house."

hence the warning about getting very close to disaster. What this means is

that the slightest deviation results in tremendous error.



■ 5 yin: Leading fish with the favor shown to court ladies, 24. Return

there is all-around benefit.

thunder below, earth above

THE IMAGE: Using the favor shown to court ladies, in the end

Return is successful. Exiting and entering, there is no ill.

there is no grudge.

When a companion comes, there is no fault. Returning back

In politics, this represents a weak leader who nevertheless is in a dominant on the path, returning in seven days, it is beneficial to have

position and also has the balance to be able to learn from the wise how to a place to go.

rescue the country from disorder.

In Buddhism, this represents a virtuous monk acting as the head of a In politics, after decline there has to be an enlightened ruler to effect resto-

community, leading the other monks to learn from the truly wise. ration; this is return. In Buddhism, after decadence has set in, there has to

In contemplating mind, this represents comprehending inherent evil in be a true sage to appear in response and bring about a revival; this is return.

cultivated evil. When inherent evil is made flexible, one can naturally ab- In contemplating mind, again there are two senses; one in terms of loss,

sorb the inherent virtues of buddhahood, so there is all-around benefit. one in terms of gain.

Also, in a positive sense, this is going from contemplation of emptiness In terms of loss, taking up after the preceding hexagram, there must be

into contemplation of the conditional, stripping away dualistic extremism return after stripping away. This is like one's mood at dawn, having returned

and entering into central balance. Therefore it is necessary to arrive at cen- to normal.

tral balance, which comprehends all things, like "leading fish with the favor In terms of gain, taking up after the preceding hexagram, stripping away

shown to court ladies," causing everything to become part of the path of is removing all emotional clinging and returning to the essence of all things.

universal enlightenment, so there is all-around benefit. In terms of contemplation of the center of all things, going from con-

templation of conditionality to contemplation of emptiness is called "strip-



■ Top yang: A hard fruit is not eaten. The leader gets a vehicle. conditional is called "return." ping away"; going from contemplations of emptiness to contemplation of the

The petty person is stripped of a house.

In terms of contemplating conditionality, emptiness, and the center all at

once, using cultivation to unite with essence is called "stripping away";

THE IMAGE: The leader gets a vehicle, in the sense of being

reaching out to teach in harmony with essence is called "return."

carried by the people. The small person is stripped of a house,

Return must lead to success; the quality of positive strength is in the lead,

after all unsuitable for employment.

so it is possible to "exit and enter without ill." Using good to transform evil,

In politics, this refers to taking the advice of outside advisers of advanced therefore, "when a companion comes there is no fault." Once you have re-

wisdom. In Buddhism, this means that highly developed people are fields of turned, you should cause the return to be permanent, so "returning back on

blessings for human society. In contemplating mind, this means that inher- the path," this comes to last a long time, here represented by "seven days."

ent good can never be stripped away; therefore it is like a hard fruit that is Then there is a beginning and an end, whereby you can help yourself and

not eaten. help others, "having a place to go."

10 8 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 24. Return 109



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Return is successful. Strength comes myriad practices of the six transcendent ways, and just observed the mind of

back, moving with harmonious action, therefore exiting and the present moment, without "inspecting the regions" of the mental and

entering without ill; when a companion comes there is no physical elements.

fault. Returning back on the path, returning in seven days,



is the action of heaven. It is beneficial to have a place to go, ■ First yang: Returning not far, no regret. Very auspicious. because strength is growing. return is to see the heart of To

heaven and earth.

THE IMAGE: Returning that is not far is done by cultivating

To interpret this in terms of contemplating mind, the essence of enlighten- oneself.

ment is called the heart of heaven and earth; not even incorrigible criminals

In Buddhist terms, when true insight is perfectly clear, one sees the essence

can ever destroy it, but as long as it is covered by evil, we cannot see it our-

of enlightenment all at once and is immediately imbued with all practices;

selves. The ocean of suffering is boundless, but the shore is near at hand; a

therefore it is very auspicious. This is like the first station of the complete

moment of inspiration for enlightenment can move the boundless ocean of

teaching. Also, in terms of the six transcendent ways, this is the correct path

samsara.

of transcendent wisdom.

The reason why return is successful is that the quality of strength emerges

in harmony with essential nature, so that there is the power to turn back

from samsara. Once this inspiration for enlightenment becomes active, this ■ 2 yin: Good return is auspicious.

is working in harmony with it; if you proceed on this basis, then you can go

out and in without ill, and company can come without fault. THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about good return

But the reason why it is necessary to return back on the path, returning in comes through humble benevolence.

seven days, is that the work of embodying the strength of the action of

In Buddhist terms, when correct concentration is balanced, one is near to

heaven and strengthening oneself unceasingly should be like this.

reality, close to sagehood, as in the stages of faith in the complete teaching.

Fulfill this one thought of enlightenment, and then it is beneficial to have

Also, in terms of the six transcendent ways, this is correct concentration

a place to go, because even though strength is very faint, the momentum of

combining with insight.

its growth cannot be stopped. Therefore from this we can sec our inherent

enlightened essence.

Also, "exiting" means going from emptiness into the conditional; "enter- 3 yin: ■ Repeated return is diligence. There is no fault.

ing" means going from the conditional into emptiness. Once we harmonize

with the essence of reality at the center of all things, we dwell neither in THE IMAGE: The diligence of repeated return

samsara nor in nirvana, but can roam freely in samsara and nirvana, so is faultless if right.

there is no ill. The "companion" means the nature and characteristics of all

In Buddhist terms, this is having concentration and insight, but not being

possible realms of experience, which when opened up become the nature

balanced correctly; therefore one must first contemplate emptiness, then

and characteristics of the realm of enlightenment; therefore there is no fault.

the conditional, then the center—this is called repeated return. By dili-

gent work in practice and experience one can get to be without fault.

THE IMAGE: Thunder in the earth—return. On the winter Also, in terms of the six transcendent ways, this is the continual urging of

solstice, the ancient kings shut the gates; the caravans did not perseverance.

travel; the ruler did not inspect the regions.



In terms of contemplating mind, even though there is momentum in the ■ 4 yin: Traveling in the center, returning alone.



growth of strength and it is beneficial to have a place to go, nevertheless it is

THE IMAGE: Traveling in the center, returning alone,

necessary to nurture potential with serenity. So the buddhahood in con-

is done by following the path.

templative practices, the "ancient kings," have awakened to the "winter sol-

stice" of the latent essence, "shut the gates" of the senses, shed attachments, In Buddhist terms, this represents correct concentration, corresponding to

and mastered themselves inwardly, temporarily halting the "caravans" of true insight. This is like people of sharp faculties in the general teaching

110 25. No Error THE BUDDHIST I CHING 111



being initiated into the complete teaching. Also, in terms of the six transcen-

dent ways, this is patience. By combining this with insight, one can attain

tolerance of people and things, which turns into tolerance of the ultimate 25. No Error

truth.

thunder below, heaven above



■ 5 yin: Attentive return, without regret. Freedom from error is very successful, beneficial for the up-

right. Denial of what is correct is mistaken, so it will not be

THE IMAGE: beneficial to go anywhere. Attentive return without regret

is balanced reflection on oneself.

In politics, a government that restores well-being accords with the way of

In Buddhist terms, this is equilibration of concentration and insight, and heaven and is free from error. In Buddhism, a teaching that restores the true

temporary attainment of balance. However, this is quite far from positive way is the same as the orthodox teaching and is free from error. In con-

strength, so after cutting through confusion and witnessing reality, it is nec- templating mind, on returning to original essence, truth is found and confu-

essary to await the revelation of the complete teaching before entering into sion is ended, so one is free from error. All of these are very successful, and

the state of completeness, like those who follow the teaching for individual beneficial for the upright.

emancipation or the general teaching for collective emancipation. Also, in But whether in worldly affairs or transcendental affairs, helping oneself

terms of the six transcendent ways, this is discipline; though far from the and helping others, it is necessary to look deeply into oneself to be sure

beginning, one just reflects on one's thoughts, words, and deeds, to make one's mind is free from aberration and one's words and deeds are not mis-

them faultless, thus naturally conforming to truth and becoming free from taken. If inwardly one denies what is correct, outwardly one will make

regret. mistakes; then one should certainly not go anywhere or do anything in

this way.



■ Top yin: Straying return is unfortunate; there is trouble. — THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: No errorstrength comes from outside Use this for a military expedition, and eventually there will be

and becomes the master of the inside. Active and healthy,

a great defeat, unfortunate even for the leader of the nation.

strength is balanced and responsive. Great success in what is

Even in ten years there is no victory.

right is the celestial command. Denial of what is correct is

THE IMAGE: mistaken, so it will not be beneficial to go anywhere. Where The misfortune of straying return is turning back

on the path of a leader. does one go without error? How could one go anywhere

without the assistance of the celestial command?

In Buddhist terms, this means being unbalanced and awry, relying on a little

Although inherent virtues are in everyone, in terms of confused feelings

worldly concentration and insight as the ultimate, straying through return.

they become on the contrary external. Now, if we initiate cultivation from

Therefore not only is it unfortunate, but there is also trouble. If you use this

essence, we will understand that inherent virtues are our own—so this is

to set up teachings and try to instruct people, you will defeat the purpose of

called becoming the master of the inside.

the Buddhist teaching and ruin the accurate methodology of the Buddha.

Once we have initiated cultivation in accord with essence, everything we

Even in ten years there will be no success, because imitation Buddhism is

do has to accord with the essence of reality. If our thoughts, words, or deeds

not real Buddhism, and goes against the path of leadership of the great ve-

are not yet pure, even if we have sublime understanding, we cannot help

hicle of complete all-at-once enlightenment.

ourselves or others. As long as we do not conform to our inherent virtues,

Also, in terms of the six ways of transcendence, this is giving; but it is far

the buddhas of the universe will not watch over us—so how could we go

from wisdom, so it is attached to forms, attached to rewards, giving rise to

anywhere?

pride and emotion, and also potentially giving rise to opinionated views.

Therefore, even though it may be a good cause, it will bring about bad re-

sults. This is because of not realizing the path of leadership of the teaching of THE IMAGE: Thunder travels under the sky; things accompany

with no error. Ancient kings promoted flourishing appropriate

Buddha.

to the time and nurtured myriad beings.

112 2 5. No Error 113 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



In Buddhist terms, the full projection of the scope of complete enlighten- THE IMAGE: Medicine should not be tried when nothing is

ment benefits people in all times; this is called promoting flourishing appro- wrong.

priate to the time. Planting and ripening the seeds of liberation, causing all

This represents sane strength balanced correctly, the epitome of freedom

sorts of people to naturally grow and eventually wind up at the unique real-

from error. But those who are without error themselves may blame others

ity is called nurturing myriad beings.

too much for their faults; this is called clinging to the medicine so much that

it becomes a disease instead. Therefore "do not use medicine—there will be



■ joy." If you try to order people based on your own standards, who in the

First yang: Going without error leads to good results.

world can follow you?

THE I MAGE: Going without error, one attains one's aspiration.

■ Top yang: Even if there is no error, action involves misfortune,

This means going to respond to events based on truly genuine freedom from

so no benefit is gained.

error. Thereby one attains one's aspiration, which leads to good results.



THE I MAGE: Action without error involves misfortune



■ when it comes to an impasse. 2 yin: Not plowing for the harvest, it is beneficial to go

somewhere. This refers to clinging to a constant and not knowing how to change adap-

tively; without temporary expedients, how can one carry anything out?

THE IMAGE: Not plowing for the harvest, one is not enriched.



This means aspiring only to attain enlightenment, not thinking of riches or In Buddhist terms, all six lines represent those who understand principle

rank. Then it is beneficial to go somewhere. that is without error and make it their practice and realization.

The first yang is accurate insight advancing directly, whereby one gets re-



■ sults in the present life and attains one's aspiration. 3 yin: The misfortune of no error—a tethered cow is a gain for The second yin is correct concentration overcoming habits; therefore it is

a traveler, a misfortune for the local people.

necessary not to grasp meditation methods or take them as final realization,

so that one can just use them as a way back home.

THE IMAGE: When a traveler finds the cow, it is a misfortune

The third yin is not balanced and not correct. Though one has a little con-

for the local people.

centrated insight and can show people how to find the way and attain re-

This represents the unbalanced and aberrant who cling to a principle that is sults, that is like a traveler finding a cow and is instead a loss to oneself, as

without error and make it into a misfortune. When a traveler finds the cow, one lingers in an ordinary state—like the "misfortune of the local people."

why then cling to principle and seek a reward from the local people? Is this The fourth yang is insight with concentration, more than enough to help

not misfortune extending to the innocent? oneself. This is finding inherent concentration and insight; it is not attained

after practice.

The fifth yang is sane strength balanced correctly. Self-help is already

■ 4 yang: One should be correct; then there is no error. complete, so one acts compassionately for the benefit of others. It is no

longer necessary to use "medicine" to cure oneself. Even a beginner's prac-

THE IMAGE: One should be correct; then there is no error— tice of contemplation is like this—all mental objects are inherent qualities,

this is inherent. so when you comprehend obstacles, they are virtues, and there is nothing to

"cure."

This means not being disposed to act arbitrarily just because one is strong;

The top yang is not balanced and not correct; this is relying on inherent

the reason is that inherent virtue is thus.

virtues and not working on cultivated virtues. If one's own actions are full of

mistakes, what benefit can there be? It is because of only talking loftily

■ about transcendence that one comes to an impasse, so that it becomes a 5 yang: For sickness without error, do not use medicine—

there will be joy. misfortune.

114 26. Great Buildup 115 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



sented by the second yang, so that strength and flexibility balance each

other, able to reach any distance. Is this not the right way in which "it is



26. Great Buildup beneficial to cross a great river"?



heaven below, mountain above

THE IMAGE: Heaven is in the mountain—great buildup.

Great buildup is beneficial if correct. It is good not Leaders build up their virtues by abundant knowledge of past

to eat at home. It is beneficial to cross a great river. words and deeds.



In one mountain there is the whole body of heaven; on one mental moment

This means building up a way free from error to nurture the world. In poli-

there are the past and present of all worlds. Taking up the "past words" of

tics, this refers to a leader who returns to a way free from error and builds

the whole range of Buddhist teachings, comprehending the "deeds" of the

up the healthy energy of the nation. In Buddhism this refers to great people

myriad virtues of the six transcendent ways, one thereby develops the quali-

returning to the true teaching and developing adepts. In contemplating

ties of one's own mind, thereby building oneself up and using this to build

mind this refers to attaining enlightenment, returning to essence without

up the world.

error, and building up provisions for enlightenment on a large scale. All of

these may be called great buildup.

Whether in worldly or transcendental affairs, to spread beneficial influ- ■ First yang: There is danger; help yourself.

ence and promote development, it is necessary to be correct for there to be

THE IMAGE: There is danger; help yourself—do not get into

any real benefit. To develop others and self equally is impartiality; to refine

trouble.

the mind through experience is essential; therefore "it is good not to eat at

home" and "it is beneficial to cross a great river."

All six lines have the sense of the shining light of strength and honesty,

through which one renews oneself and renews other people. In the first

yang, positive strength is in a low position; at such a time it is appropriate to

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In great buildup, strength and honesty

live in obscurity and pursue one's aspiration. This involves the effort to be

shine, daily renewing their virtues. Strength rises and esteems

wary of danger and first help oneself. Once self-help is complete, then one

the wise. Ability to control power is great rectitude. Not eating

can help others according to circumstances. If one tries to liberate others

at home is good—this is developing the wise. It is beneficial

before having completed work on oneself, then one will get into trouble.

to cross a great river—this is responding to heaven.



The strength represented by heaven and the honesty represented by moun- ■ 2 yang: The car has its axles removed.

tain both have the sense of shining light. Using this to renew virtues daily,

the buildup will be great in depth and breadth—so it is called great buildup. THE IMAGE: The car has its axles removed, but there is no

But what the expressions "beneficial if correct," "it is good not to eat at resentment in the heart.

home," and "it is beneficial to cross a great river" refer to is not setting up

cultivated virtues outside of essential nature; this is cultivation initiated in Strength in balance, one focuses on cultivating concentrated insight. It

conformity with essential nature, the completion of which cultivation is in seems as if one has no interest in taking advantage of the time to carry out

essential nature. the way, but since self-help is properly the basis on which to help others,

Now observe the quality of strength of heaven; it rises to the top end of the therefore there is no resentment in the heart.

hexagram, and the fifth yin is able to honor and esteem it. Furthermore, the

body of the hexagram is still outside and powerful inside. Is this not the way ■ 3 yang: A good horse gives chase. It is beneficial to struggle for

whose basic nature is great rectitude? right. Daily practicing charioteering and defense, it is beneficial

The fifth yin represents the Duality of flexibility in balance, able to nur- to have somewhere to go.

ture wise teachers above to influence the world, and to nurture wise citizens

below to serve the nation; is this not the right way in which "it is good not to THE IMAGE: It is beneficial to have somewhere to go,

eat at home"? It corresponds with the strength of celestial qualities repre - in the sense of joining in the aims of those above.

116 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 2 7. Nourishment 117



Strength correctly oriented, at the top of heaven, one does not worry about

not being able to liberate people, but rather worries about being too eager to

advance quickly and thereby slipping up in defense against carelessness. 27. Nourishment

Therefore it is beneficial to struggle for right. "Daily practicing charioteering

thunder below, mountain above

and defense, it is beneficial to have somewhere to go" because above there

are good companions, as represented by the fourth yin, wise leaders, as rep- Nourishment is good if correct. Observe nourishment,

resented by the fifth yin, and enlightened teachers, as represented by the top and seek food by yourself.

yang. Joining in their aims, it will be possible to alert and encourage one

another, thus facilitating progress. In politics, this is building up virtue to nurture the country. In Buddhism,

this is building up virtue to benefit all beings. In contemplating mind, this is

■ 4 yin: The horn-guard of a young ox is very auspicious. nurturing embryonic sagehood once the provisions for enlightenment have

been accumulated.

THE IMAGE: What is very auspicious about the fourth yin Self-help and helping others are beneficial if correct. In either case it is

is that there is joy. necessary to see how the sages of the past accomplished nourishment, and

to see how you feed yourself.

This represents flexibility that is correctly oriented, corresponding below

with strong, upright, good companions, represented by the first yang, asso-

ciating with strong, upright, awesome companions, represented by the third THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Nourishment is good if correct.

yang, and approaching flexible, balanced, wise leaders, represented by the Observing nourishment is observing what is nourished.

fifth yin. Faults have not yet begun to appear, and in fact dissolve unawares Seeking food by yourself is observing your own nourishment.

and transform silently. This is like putting a horn-guard on a young ox be- Heaven and earth nurture myriad beings, sages nurture the

fore its horns have grown, so that there is no worry that it will gore anyone. wise, for the effect this has on the general population. The

When one develops oneself in this way, and thereby is a model for the world, ti me of nourishment is great indeed.

this is very good and auspicious, joyful and happy.

Nourishment is good if correct; clearly if what is nourished is not correct, or



■ The tusks of a gelded boar are auspicious. if what is correct is not nourished, then this is not the way to good fortune. 5 yin: Unless you observe what sages nourish, you have no way to find an ex-

THE IMAGE: ample to hope to emulate. If you do not observe the fulfillment of your own What is auspicious about the fifth yin

is that there is celebration. nourishment, you have no way to be the peer of those who are good.

If you nourish yourself with the qualities of the absolute, which com-

A gelded boar is not violent, but its tusks are still hard and sharp. When pletely embodies heaven and earth, then you can nourish all beings. Sages

flexibility is in a position of balance, one honors the wise above and re- nurture wise assistants to complete their own qualities, and thus can extend

sponds to creativity below. Since inherent virtues are not lopsided, what is the effect to the general population.

developed is also comprehensive. When self-help is completed, one can Who could say that there is any way to benefit people other than to nour-

then rule, and all the good and bad people come under one's rule; therefore ish what is right? Therefore when one corrects one's own nourishment, one

one is like the tusks of a gelded boar. thereby includes the totality of position, upbringing, achievement, and abil-

ity; so this is called "great."

■ Top yang: Carrying the crossroads of heaven is successful.



THE IMAGE: Carrying the crossroads of heaven, the way is THE IMAGE: There is thunder beneath the mountain.

carried out on a grand scale. Leaders are prudent in speech, moderate in consumption.



Bearing the responsibility of a leader and guide with strength and flexibility Speech and consumption are both representations of action; to be prudent

in balance, the aim one sought in private life is now carried out on a grand and moderate is not to lose control. Therefore to nourish what is right, it is

scale, without obstruction. best to know when to stop.

27. Nourishment 119

118 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



■ First yang: To give up your sacred tortoise and watch me greedily ■ 4 yin: Reverse nourishment is auspicious. The tiger watches

leads to misfortune. intently, about to give chase. No fault.



THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about reverse nourishment is

THE IMAGE: To watch me greedily is not worthy of respect.

giving out light from above.

Positive strength is a tool to nourish oneself' and others as well; knowing

when to stop is the right way to nourish oneself and others. The first yang When flexibility is correctly oriented and is under control, even if one has

no means of nourishment, one has found the right way to nourish. This line

represents positive strength that is sufficient to nourish oneself, like a sacred

corresponds with the first yang, depending on that nourishment for self-

tortoise that ingests the energy in the air and so does not need food. To give

nourishment and nourishment of others. This is like an easygoing, tolerant

this up and watch another's food is greed; thus you lose what is valuable and

suffer misfortune. This is like a leader who proceeds too rapidly; in Buddhist official. This is a way to good results.

In the first yang, you watch me greedily, and I deal politely with your in-

terms it is like an ordinary externalist with merely theoretical knowledge

tent watching, about to give chase. This is not worthy of esteem at first, but

that cannot help people.

as far as I am concerned, it is a way to nurture the wise for the effect this



■ extends to the populace. This can be called "giving out light from above."

2 yin: Perverting nourishment brushes aside the constant.

In Buddhism, this is like when wise and good people manage affairs and

Feeding on high ground, an expedition bodes ill.

skillfully act as outside protectors of the teaching.

THE IMAGE: An expedition bodes ill for the second yin,

because the action loses companionship. ■ 5 yin: Brushing aside the constant, it is good to remain upright,

but it will not do to cross a great river.

For those above to nourish those below is the rational constant. Here one in

a higher position is recessive and weak, and relies on strength from below What is good about remaining upright is following THE IMAGE:

for nourishment; so this "brushes aside the constant." those above docilely.

Also, this line is in the body of movement; one may not be willing to rest

When one is weak and has no means to nourish people, one is in a position

content in one's own lot, and so may seek to feed on the "high ground" of

of leadership in vain; therefore it is called "brushing aside the constant." But

the fifth yin. The fifth yin may respond, but it is also weak and unable to

if one is in control of oneself and obediently follows those who are more

nourish itself, so how can it nourish others? So to go on the expedition will

highly developed, this also nourishes the wise, the effects of which reach

only bring misfortune. Both the second and the fifth are yin, without any

ability to balance each other, so this is "losing companionship." the populace; this is finding what is right.

This is like a useless official. In Buddhist terms, it is like those who expe- However, in this case one can only deal with what is normal, and cannot

rience blind meditation and lose their bearings. deal with change; it is better to preserve what is established and not try to

start any new works. This is like wise leaders who make naught of them-



■ selves. In Buddhism, this is like flexible and harmonious fellow practitioners

3 yin: Going against nourishment is inauspicious even if there

is rectitude. Do not act on this for ten years; there is nothing who urge each other on.

to be gained.

■ Top yang: At the source of nourishment, it is good to be diligent,

THE IMAGE: Do not act on this for ten years, for the way is beneficial to cross a great river.

greatly confused.

THE IMAGE: At the source of nourishment, it is good to be

The weak cannot nourish themselves; if they are also not balanced correctly diligent. There will be great celebration.

and dwell on the climax of action in this state, this is going against nourish-

ment. Even though there is a correct correspondence with the top yang, this Here positive strength is at the peak of control; this is why the hexagram is

cannot save them, and they wind up useless. called nourishment. This is like being the tutor of an up-and-corning ruler,

This is like crooked executives and officials. In Buddhism, it is like the thus able to help the whole country. In Buddhism, this is like a teacher who

has realized enlightenment and is in charge of the mystic order.

senses deranging people so that they lose their standards.



120 The Passing of Greatness THE BUDDHIST I CHING 28. 121



rooted and development have a proper basis; then it is possible to refine and

support the mediocre.



28. The Passing of Greatness



wind below, lake above ■ First yin: Spreading a mat of white reeds, there is no blame.



When greatness passes, the ridgepole bends. THE IMAGE: Spreading a mat of white reeds means flexibility

It is beneficial to have somewhere to go, for you will in a low position.

succeed.

Whether in worldly affairs or in Buddhism, at the time of the passing of the

In politics, this is when a wise leader nurtures the country and there has great, a balance of firmness and flexibility makes for success, while being

too firm or too flexible makes for failure. This first yin represents flexibility

been peace for a long time. In Buddhism, this is when the path transforms

people and Buddhism flourishes. In contemplating mind, this is when the in a low position, remaining docile, yet in a positive position. Here there is

work progresses and is about to break through ignorance. no fame, wealth, or honor to burden the mind, only ordinary qualities and

When there has been peace for a long time, the beginnings of disorder ordinary speech; studying humbly to attain higher things is one's work here.

inevitably sprout. It is best to prevent it when it is still weak, to stop it from In Buddhist terms, concentration has matching insight and is also refined by

creeping up. When the transformative path is flourishing, contaminations the virtues of discipline; therefore there is no blame.

easily arise; it is best to set up guidelines and regulations. When meditation



work is advanced, ignorance is about to dissolve; it is best to exercise the ■ 2 yang: A withered willow produces sprouts, an old man gets a

mind skillfully.

girl for a wife; none do not benefit.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: " " The passing of greatness An old man getting a girl for a wife has her for a

means the THE IMAGE:

great passes. "The ridgepole bends" means that root and branch companion in spite of being older.

are weak. Strength is predominant yet balanced; it is docile

This represents strength in balance, and also in a recessive position. Yang

and acts joyfully. It is beneficial to have somewhere to go, for

getting help from yin is like a withered willow producing sprouts, like an

you will then succeed. The time of the passing of greatness is

great indeed. old man getting a girl for a wife. In terms of Buddhism, this is insight to-

gether with concentration, like first seeing the way, then afterward practicing

When the great has passed, it is therefore time to think about problems and meditation on phenomena; therefore none do not benefit.

prevent them. In this hexagram, the first and top lines are both weak, so

strength is balanced. It is not good to rely on force and cause disturbance;

though strength is predominant, yet it is balanced, and it is docile and acts ■ 3 yang: The ridgepole bending is foreboding.

joyfully, so there is still a way to restore order and equilibrium. Then success

THE IMAGE: The foreboding of the ridgepole bending is that

is attained. This time is critical for the preservation of tranquillity, and it is

there is no way to help.

also critical for sudden decline at the climax of flourishing; so is the relation-

ship not great? When too obstinate and unbalanced, indulging in stubbornness, if one culti-

vates oneself in this way, one's virtues will surely be ruined, and if one gov-

THE IMAGE: Moisture destroys wood—the passing of greatness. erns society in this way, disturbances will surely arise. Therefore the ridgepole

Developed people stand alone without fear, avoid society bends, and this is foreboding. In terms of Buddhism, this is only using mis-

without distress. guided intelligence, so there is no way to help.



Moisture originally nourishes wood, but also can destroy it; this is the image

of the passing of greatness. Only when sustained by the power to stand ■ 4 yang: The ridgepole is raised. This is auspicious,

alone without fear and avoid society without distress can learning be firmly but there is another shame.



122 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 29. Multiple Danger 123



THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about the ridgepole being raised

is that it does not bend down.



When strong but not excessively so, one can establish oneself and others as 29. Multiple Danger

well. But if one likes greatness and enjoys achievement, one may not keep

water above, water below

calm; hence the warning that there is another shame.

In Buddhist terms, this too is insight along with concentration. But one In multiple danger, if there is sincerity, the mind gets

may have some personal ambition, in which case self-help and helping through and action has value.

others will not necessarily be fulfilled; hence the warning that there is an-

other shame. In society, when there is peace for a long time, carelessness arises; when

carelessness arises, trouble comes again and again.



■ 5 yang: A withered willow bears flowers, an old woman gets a contamination arises; when contamination arises, destructive activity takes In Buddhism, when many people follow the influence of the teaching,

young man for a husband. No blame, no praise.

place.

In contemplating mind, when the power of intellect is dominant, past

THE IMAGE: When a withered willow bears flowers, how can

habits become active; when past habits become active, mental states emerge

they last? An old woman getting a young man for a husband

powerfully.

can also be embarrassing.

All of these are represented as multiple danger. But in both mundane and

Although here positive strength is balanced correctly, nevertheless in a time transmundane affairs, the problem is not that there is danger; the problem is

when greatness has passed, this is relying on intellectual talents; enjoying when there is no good strategy for getting out of danger. If one can be truly

peace, one does not know the problems of the people, and does not know sincere within, deeply believing that all objects are only projections of mind,

enough to employ wise officials who are in lower positions, only consorting then you will get through and your action will have value; so what danger

with weak and useless old officials, as represented by the top yin. How can cannot be overcome?

this last?

In Buddhist terms, when the power of insight is too much and there is no

meditation concentration to sustain it, how is it possible to produce superior THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Multiple danger is repeated peril. As

results? water flows and does not fill, act in danger without losing

faith. The mind gets through because strength is in balance;



■ Top yin: Going too far, passing away at the peak, heaven is that we cannot ascend to it; the danger of earth is its action has value in proceeding to success. The danger of

there is misfortune, but no blame. mountains, rivers, and hills. Rulers set up dangers to preserve

their countries. The timely use of danger is great indeed.

THE IMAGE: The misfortune of going too far cannot be blamed.

Those who are skilled in observing mind can always make an impasse into a

Here there are only the virtues of flexibility and uprightness, without the

way through. Though multiple danger is repeated peril, if one lets it flow

ability to solve difficulties, so misfortune cannot be avoided; but one is really

and does not become overwhelmed, it will be like the ocean tide, which keeps

not to blame. In Buddhist terms, this is when correct concentration has no

to its limits—this is the essential art for our cultivation of enlightenment.

insight, winding up as a fall at the peak.

What is important is to deeply believe that the mind can get through, with

strength in balance as represented by the center yang of the water trigram. To

proceed in this way will surely lead to success.

Furthermore, the word "danger" may sound bad, but the meaning of dan-

ger really is never bad. We cannot ascend to heaven, so isn't heaven "danger-

ous"? The danger of walls and moats can be used to protect a country, so

when have rulers ever refrained from using danger? It is all a matter of using





I


124 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING 29. Multiple Danger 125



danger skillfully, and not being used by danger; then it can be used to govern someone with false views and conceit, who therefore ultimately accom-

society, and on the transmundane plane it can be used to observe the mind. plishes nothing.



THE IMAGE: ■ 4 yin: A jug of wine, with a ceremonial vessel of grain Water comes repeatedly—multiple danger.

Developed people practice teaching by constant alongside. Use a plain cup; take in a pledge through the

virtuous action. window. In the end there is no fault.



Constant virtuous action is indefatigable study. Practicing teaching is in- THE IMAGE: A jug of wine with a ceremonial vessel of grain

structing people tirelessly. The image of multiple danger is that of the mental alongside stands for the border of hard and soft.

method of the sages of all time; danger is not to be feared. This is in perfect

Here flexibility is correctly oriented, coupled with the quality of correctly

accord with the Tiantai Buddhist teaching of knowing how to get through

balanced strength represented by the fifth yang. This is what is called devel-

an impasse, the method of making an impasse itself into a way through; this

oping insight by way of concentration, and is indeed a wonderful way to get

is also the method of skillfully using natural ills.

out of danger.

Accurate observation is like a jug of wine, auxiliary practices are like a

■ First yin: Multiple danger, going into a hole in a pit, ceremonial vessel of grain. Sincere simplicity is like a plain cup, expedient

leads to misfortune. means are like a window, through which one can discover reality and be

faultless.

THE IMAGE: Going from danger into danger is the misfortune

of losing the way.

■ 5 yang: The pit is not filled, only leveled. No blame.

When in danger, whether it is a matter of self-help or helping others, all that

is important is that there be true sincerity and that concentration and wisdom THE IMAGE: The pit is not filled" means the center

balance each other. Now the first yin is negative and in a low position, sym- is not yet great.

bolizing absence of even the slightest sincerity or truthfulness. This rep-

resents sinking into had habits and being unable to extricate oneself Here positive strength is balanced correctly; one has already attained mani-

festation of transmundane true insight. This is like when a pit is not filled to

from them.

overflowing with water; the wind is still, and the ripples settle. But this is

only the initial breakthrough of ignorance; remaining illusions are not yet

■ 2 yang: There is danger in a pitfall; one seeks a small gain. ended, so "the center is not yet great." This just urges us to quickly head for

consummate sagehood.

THE IMAGE: Seeking a small gain, one has not yet

gotten out of the middle.

■ Top yin: Bound with rope, put in a briar patch,

Here strength is balanced, and there is sincerity, but one is still in a low posi- helpless for three years—misfortune.

tion, meaning that ingrained habits are still deeply rooted; one cannot yet

arrive all at once at the realm of the sages, and can only realize a small gain. THE IMAGE: The top yin loses the way, unfortunate

for three years.



■ 3 yin: Coming and going, pitfall upon pitfall, endangered and This is weakness in extreme danger, having concentration without insight.

obstructed, gone into a hole in a pit—do not act this way. This is like the ordinary externalist who practices ignorant concentration

and may reach even to the state where there are no mental images, but ulti-

THE IMAGE: Coming and going, pitfall upon pitfall, in the end

mately cannot get out of bondage to the world. Attachment to views is now

there is no accomplishment.

profound, like being in a briar patch and never being able to get out.

Unbalanced and awry, weak yet stubborn, one thinks one has gotten out of

danger, but is not aware of the coming of the danger ahead. This is like

126 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 30. Fire 127



THE IMAGE: Be heedful when the steps are awry, to avoid fault.



30.

Fire In the beginning of the exercise of contemplation, even though one has ac-

curate insight, still the practice is not yet pure; so it is like being awry. Only

fire below, fire above by intent struggle, not daring to be complacent, can virtue progress day by

day and habits be removed day by day, so as to avoid fault. Do not wait for

Fire is beneficial if correct; then there is success.

faults to arise before getting rid of them.

Raising a cow brings good fortune.



Fire has no nature of its own; it only appears cleaving to fuel—therefore it is ■ 2 yin: Yellow fire is very auspicious.

called clinging. In politics, this means that in times of multiple danger it is

necessary to cleave to just law to control society. In Buddhism, when de- THE IMAGE: Yellow fire is very auspicious,

attaining the middle way.

mons cause disturbance, it is necessary to cleave to true teaching to get rid of

aberrations. In contemplating mind, when mental states arise, it is necessary

Subtle concentration balanced correctly is developed in harmony with es-

to cleave to correct observation to dissolve obscurity. Therefore in each case

sence; using this to illumine all things causes all things to become the middle

the benefit is in being correct; then there is success.

way. This is subtle cessation of confused thought by means of the complete

A cow is gentle and docile, yet very strong; it can also give birth to calves.

fluidity of the absolute.

This symbolizes correct concentration being able to produce subtle insight.



— ■ 3 yang: In the fire of the afternoon sun, you either drum on a

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Fire is clinging the sun and moon

jug and sing, or lament as in old age. This bodes ill.

cling to the sky, plants cling to the earth. Clinging to what is

correct with twofold illumination transforms and perfects the THE I MAGE: The fire of the afternoon sun cannot last long. world. Flexibility clings to balance and correctness, and so is

successful. Therefore raising a cow brings good fortune. When you use insight too much without concentration to balance it, some-

ti mes you will be extremely joyful, drumming and singing, and sometimes

Just as the sun and moon must cling to the sky and plants must cling to the you will be extremely anxious, lamenting as in old age. Sadness and joy dis-

earth, our twofold illumination, knowledge and wisdom, also must cling to turb the song of your heart; intellectual insight cannot sustain itself—back-

the correctness of inherent virtues; then, self-help completed, we can thereby sliding and loss are inevitable.

transform the world.



Now, the light of knowledge and wisdom needs meditation concentration ■ 4 yang: Coming forth abruptly, burning, dying, abandoned.

to emerge; and meditation concentration also depends on essence for perfec-

tion. In this hexagram, the fifth yin and second yin cling to the position of

THE IMAGE: Coming forth abruptly, there is no

balance and correctness, so there is a way to success, just as a cow can give

accommodation.

birth to the calves of knowledge and wisdom, bringing good fortune.

Here, though it seems that one has insight and concentration, in reality one

THE IMAGE: Illumination doubled makes fire. Great people is not balanced and not correct, unable to harmonize the elements of the

illumine the four quarters with continuing illumination. path to enlightenment. Therefore sometimes one pushes forward too quickly,

"coming forth abruptly," and sometimes one slacks off heedlessly, "burning,

Illumination upon illumination, continuing unending, once one has person- dying, abandoned."

ally illumined one's qualities, then one can thereby illumine the four quarters. Those whose advance is too keen will surely regress quickly; if the com-

ing forth is abrupt, there will certainly be no accommodation. Why wait un-

til burning out to realize that this is not the way to a good end?

■ First yang: The steps are awry. Be heedful of this,

and there will be no fault.

128 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 31. Sensing 129



■ 5 yin: Weeping and lamenting, there is good fortune. through. But sense and response have to be correct, just as in social terms

marriage has to be done properly to be correct and auspicious.

THE IMAGE: The good fortune of the fifth yin is cleaving to

rulers. THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Sensing is sensitive; the flexible

above, the firm below, the two energies sense and respond so

This represents concentration in balance, which can bring forth genuine in-

as to form a couple. Calm and joyful, this man is below the

sight; therefore progress is certain. "Weeping and lamenting" refers to ab-

woman; therefore they get through to each other beneficially

stention from complacency and presumption; this is always characteristic of

in the right way, in an auspicious marriage. When heaven and

the study of sages.

earth sense, myriad beings are born; sages sense people's

minds, and the world is at peace. Observe what is sensed, and

■ Top yang: The king goes on an expedition, has good luck, and the feelings of heaven, earth, and myriad beings can be seen.

overcomes the leader, taking captives, but not because they are

repugnant. No fault. What makes sensing sensitive? The flexibility of the body of earth in the

lower trigram goes up to the sixth line, making lake; the firmness of the

THE IMAGE: The king goes on an expedition to bring correct body of heaven in the upper trigram goes down to the third line, making

order to the country. mountain: this is the sense and response of the two energies of heaven and

earth forming a couple.

Strong without excess, at the peak of illumination, self-help has already been Also, mountain represents calm, lake represents joy. The man is below the

completed, so there is a way to transform others; people spontaneously seek woman; this is the correct manner of sense and response, and this is why it

allegiance, humbling themselves—it is not that they are repugnant or evil is auspicious.

and need to be attacked. When people are upright, the country is upright; In Buddhist terms, mountain represents the unenlightened, lake repre-

when it is said that the king goes on an expedition, this does not mean the sents the enlightened; once the unenlightened have focused on sensing the

exercise of force or authority. enlightened, then the enlightened respond to them with explanations of

truth.

In terms of contemplating mind, mountain represents observation, lake

represents mental states; once observing knowledge focuses on investigating

31. Sensing mental states, the truth of the states becomes obvious, and one attains joy.

Whether in worldly or transmundane matters, things are accomplished by

mountain below, lake above

sensing; so it is thereby possible to see the feelings of heaven and earth and

Sensing gets through, beneficial if correct. myriad beings.

Marriage is auspicious.

THE IMAGE: — There is a lake atop a mountainsensing.

The trigram mountain has the top line of heaven and is represented as the Developed people accept others with openness.

youngest son in a family; this is like a beginner's insight with concentration,

Pride is like a high mountain, where the water of truth cannot remain; here

insight not losing concentration.

there is a lake atop a mountain, symbolizing receptivity through openness.

The trigram lake has the top line of earth, and is represented as the young-

est daughter in a family; this is like a beginner's concentration with insight,

concentration not losing insight. ■ First yin: Sensing in the big toe.

These two are subject and object to one another, sensitively responding to

one another; hence the name sensing. THE IMAGE: Sensing in the big toe means the aspiration is

In politics, this is the communication of rulers and ruled. In Buddhism, outside.

this is the interaction of the enlightened and the unenlightened. In con-

Though sensing may lead to effectiveness, it should not stray from tranquil

templating mind, this is the mutual activation of objects and knowledge.

i mperturbability. It is also necessary to really know what is appropriate for

When there is sensitive response, there must be communication getting 130 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 31. Sensing 131



the time and situation; if sensing disturbs inner autonomy, then one loses THE IMAGE: Correctness brings good fortune, and regret

the basis for responsiveness. disappears; one has not yet sensed danger. Coming and going

In this hexagram, the bottom three lines are in the body of stopping, rep- ceaselessly, one is not yet great.

resented by mountain, and are in a low position, so it is not appropriate that

Strong but not excessive, concentration and wisdom in balance, one attains

they should respond arbitrarily to others. The top three lines are in the body

the right way of sensitive response; so one is fortunate and regret disappears.

of joy, represented by lake, and are in a high position, so they all may re-

Seeing the mutual embrace and inclusion of one's own mind and others'

spond well to others.

minds, there is the image of coming and going ceaselessly.

Now, this first yin is recessive and in the lowest position, but it is moved by

Since the mind is made the basis of sensitive response, mettlesome people

the sense of the fourth yang, with which it corresponds; so it unavoidably

will all honor you and draw near to you, as in the image of companions

becomes active—this is represented by the toes moving first.

following your thoughts.

There are no fixed times for action and inaction. When it is time to stop,

Because one has attained the correct way of sensitive response, one may

then stop, and when it is time to go, then go. If action is appropriate, then it

sense all day without deviating from tranquil imperturbability; therefore

leads to good results, and if action is inappropriate, then it leads to bad re-

one has not yet sensed danger.

sults. Therefore it cannot be judged as right or wrong a priori. So when it is

Because one is aware of the comings and goings of the mind, though one

said that the aspiration is outside, this too has its own differences. If the aspi-

knows basically what one is thinking, it is still necessary to enter into the

ration is on the whole world, without selfish concern for one's person or

spirit thoroughly to bring out its function. Efficient functioning calms the

family, then it bodes well; if the aspiration is toward fame and fortune, with-

person and allows one to pursue virtue. By thoroughly examining the spirit

out concern for the essence of mind, then it is shameful.

and knowing its transformations, one can go deeply into the realm of the

unknown. Therefore one is not willing to hastily regard one's present real-

■ 2 yin: Sensing in the calf bodes ill. To stay put bodes well. ization as great.



THE IMAGE: To stay put in spite of foreboding leads to good

results, because obedience does no harm. ■ 5 yang: Sensing in the flesh of the back, there is no regret.



Here flexibility is balanced correctly, and is moved by the sense of the fifth THE IMAGE: Sensing in the flesh of the back, the aim is

yang. If you try to advance in haste arbitrarily, this bodes ill, but if you stay concluded. put and keep to yourself, this bodes well. This is because staying put and

keeping to oneself is obeying the path of flexible balance and does no harm. Here positive strength is balanced correctly and is in the body of joy. This is

like the image of "stopping at the back, not finding the body, walking in the



■ garden, not seeing the person." This is full accord with the subtlety of being

3 yang: Sensing in the thighs, when clinging to following,

"tranquil and imperturbable yet sensitive and effective." Therefore one has

to go on brings shame.

no faults to regret and carries a good beginning to a good end, realizing the

THE IMAGE: Sensing in the thighs is also not staying put; ultimate. This is called the conclusion of one's aim.

the aim is in following others; what is clung to is low.



At the end of calmness, with a strong sense of rectitude, moved by the top ■ Top yin: Sensing in the jaws and tongue.

yin, one hastily tries to liberate others without realizing that to liberate

THE IMAGE: Sensing in the jaws and tongue is speaking a lot.

others requires that self-liberation be accomplished first. Once bound by

pleasant circumstances, one immediately loses what one has cultivated hith- Here flexibility is correctly oriented; this is the key to joy. Inwardly based on

erto, and this is shameful. calmness, one outwardly exercises intelligent eloquence; this is the image of

sensing in the jaws and tongue. Expounding the truth inexhaustibly, teach-

■ 4 yang: ing people tirelessly, it is therefore called "speaking a lot." Correctness brings good fortune, and regret disappears.

Coming and going ceaselessly, companions follow your The reason that the first "sensing in the big toe" and the top "sensing in

thoughts. the jaws and tongue" do not say whether they are good or bad is that for

132 32. Constancy 133 TH6' BUDDHIST I CHING



beginners, in the first steps, there are both wrong and right, about which it Observe what they are constant in, and the conditions of

is impossible to generalize, and in teaching people there are also wrong and heaven, earth, and all beings can be seen.

right, which are not on the same track. This is a question to be pondered in

Why is constancy called enduring? Because the path can endure forever.

connection with the admonitions in the sayings about "getting through" and

The body of thunder is basically earth, but firmness comes up to direct it; the

"beneficial if correct." body of wind is basically heaven, but flexibility goes down to direct it: this is

the constant path of mutual balance of firmness and flexibility. Thunder

moves, wind drums; this is the constant path of creation of beings, growth

and development. Inwardly harmonious, outwardly active; this is the con-

32. stant path of human affairs and physical principles. Firmness and flexibility Constancy

corresponding is the constant path of structural complementarily.

wind below, thunder above Enduring on the path is called being correct; thus one can come through

Constancy comes through without fault, beneficial insofar without fault. So also is the path of heaven and earth. Since a beginning

as it is correct. It is beneficial to have a place to go. necessitates an end, an end must also necessitate a beginning. Beginning

and ending alternate, so they are impermanent, but since beginning and

The mechanism of sense and response does not allow any discrepancy, while ending continue, they are not final. Neither final nor permanent, the facts of

the principle of sense and response is eternally unchanging. Sense and re- eternity and impermanence are both established: so heaven and earth have

sponse are based on the principle which is always thus, so lake and mountain becoming, subsistence, decay and emptiness; sun and moon rise and set by

can be called sensing. The constant principle is explained based on the day and night; the four seasons supersede one another; the path of sages has

subtlety of meeting potential, so thunder and wind can be called constancy. substance and function of beginning and ending. In all of these, the facts of

Lake and mountain are called sensing, so the eternal is identical to imper- eternity and impermanence reside together, but the essence is neither eter-

nal nor impermanent—the name of constancy is imposed on it.

manence; thunder and wind are called constancy, so i mpermanence is eter-



nal. Also, sensing is lake and mountain, so impermanence is fundamen- THE IMAGE: Thunder and wind are constant; so do developed

tally eternal; constancy is thunder and wind, so the eternal is fundamental

people stand without changing place.

i mpermanence.

Since the principle is eternal, eternity must come through and must

"Place" means that which is completely fixed yet completely fluid, com-

be without fault. But eternity does not mean the permanence of fixation; '

pletely fluid yet completely fixed. Look from the east and it is west; look

one must know that there is both substance and function. The substance is

from the south and it is north—is this not fluid? South is not north, east is

neither eternal nor impermanent; the function illumines both eternity and

not west—is this not fixed? To "stand without changing place" simply

i mpermanence. means to stand on the path which is completely fixed yet completely flex-

To understand the substance that is neither eternal nor impermanent is

ible, completely flexible yet completely fixed.

called the benefit in being correct. To activate the function that can be both

eternal and impermanent is called the benefit in having a place to go.

■ First yin: In deep constancy, fidelity brings misfortune;

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Constancy is enduring. Firmness is

there is no gain.

above, flexibility below. Thunder and wind pair up, moving

along harmoniously; the hard and the soft correspond THE IMAGE: The misfortune of deep constancy is from seeking

constantly. Constancy comes through without fault, beneficial depth to start with.

insofar as it is correct, in the sense of enduring on the path.

The path of heaven and earth is constant and enduring, never In sensing, there is a problem when one lacks the discipline to keep con-

ending. It is beneficial to have a place to go, in the sense that trolled calm; in constancy, there is a problem when one lacks the learning to

the end has a beginning. As long as there is the sky, sun and change adaptively. This first yin, being passive and in a low position, repre-

moon can shine forever; the four seasons change, yet can go on sents one who knows how to persist to the death but does not know how to

forever. Sages endure on the path, and the world develops. change adaptively; thus the deeper the seeking, the more the loss of the

33. Withdrawal 135

134 THE BUDDHIST I CH1NG

Weak at the climax of action, one's aspirations are great but one's talents are

benefits of coming through correctly with a place to go—therefore it brings

small; one's position is high but one's qualities are meager. What is more,

misfortune.

one is in league with inconstant friends. How then is it possible to help the



■ 2 yang: world? Regret disappears.



THE IMAGE: Regret disappears, as one can remain balanced.



Strong yet flexible, and in a position of balance, not biased or partial, neither

eager nor averse, one remains on the path of balance, not fixated on un-

adaptive constancy; therefore regret disappears. 33. Withdrawal



■ 3 yang: mountain below, heaven above Not being constant in virtue may be taken as a

disgrace. Even if one is right, one is humiliated. Withdrawal is successful. Small benefit is correct.



THE IMAGE: Not being constant in virtue, there is no In the course of the development of a society, after a time there must be

accommodation. change for further development to take place; after moving forward, it is

necessary to take a step back in order to last. This hexagram represents

Excessive strength unbalanced, one is unwilling to persist in what one

strength with the ability to stop. This does not take advance to be progress,

should persist in. Too much is as bad as not enough; positive strength that is

but takes withdrawal for progress. Therefore there is success.

not constant is most disgraceful.

But when we talk about withdrawing, it seems to be like the small path of



■ 4 yang: self-help. If we fulfill this small path, is this not close to losing the universal

No game in the fields.

rule that we should help others? This is the reason for the statement that

THE IMAGE: This is not the place for persistence. "small benefit is correct," meaning that even though this seems to be the

How can one catch game? same as a small path, it ultimately is beneficial for the righteousness of a

great person.

This line represents one who is constantly on the move; but being on the

move is not something that can endure forever, so how can one catch the THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Withdrawal is successful, in that by

game? Only by stillness can one get anything. withdrawing you get through successfully. Strength is in its

proper place and is responsive, acting in accord with the time.

■ 5 yin: The fidelity of constancy in virtue bodes well for a Small benefit is correct, in that it gradually grows. The

woman, bodes ill for a man. meaning of the time of withdrawal is great indeed.



THE IMAGE: What bodes well in fidelity for a woman is In the study of higher development, those who wish to help themselves and

consistency from start to finish. For a man doing his duty, to others attain success by withdrawal. Strength in a position of leadership,

follow a woman bodes ill. coupled with wisdom, is the way to act in accord with the time, and thus is

successful. The statement that "small benefit is correct" is made in consid-

This represents flexibility in balance, and also in correspondence with the

eration of the fact that the will for self-discipline on the part of the weak

wise; it seems to be correct constancy, but a leader in charge of guiding the

gradually grows. Those who withdraw properly actually progress through

people is acting like a housewife if he has no ability to adapt successfully to

their withdrawal, while those who withdraw improperly ultimately do not

changes. progress. So the consideration involved is very important.



■ Top yin: Constant excitement bodes ill. THE IMAGE: There are mountains under heaven, which is

inaccessible. Developed people keep petty people at a

THE IMAGE: Constant excitement in those on top is utterly

distance, being strict without ill will.

unsuccessful.

136

THE BUDDHIST I CHING 34. The Power of the Great 137



If you are outwardly strong and inwardly stable, even though you never spirit to "feed servants and concubines," for that will lead to good results.

even think of keeping petty people at a distance, petty people naturally will What this means is that if one cannot govern a nation, one should still take

care of one's family, as a model for the world.

be unable to flatter you. Petty people can be useful, so there is no ill will, but

their pettiness cannot wield authority, so be strict. In terms of learning to be

a sage, the celestial ruler is the master, and the physical body takes orders ■ 4 yang: Developed people who withdraw in the right way are

from it, so that the desires of the various parts of the body cannot cause fortunate; petty people are not.

disturbance.

THE IMAGE: Developed people withdraw well; petty people do

not.

■ First yin: Withdrawing the tail is dangerous. Do not go

anywhere with this. This is being strong but remaining flexible, receiving the favor of the ruler

and seeing to the comfort of the people, being tolerant and accommodating.

THE IMAGE: With the danger of withdrawing the tail, if you do

This is a way to good fortune for developed people, something that petty

not go anywhere, what trouble will there be? people cannot learn.



In withdrawing, one must accord with one's qualities and state in making

this a way of advance or retreat; only thus can one avoid losing the way to ■ 5 yang: Excellent withdrawal, correct and auspicious.

success in the correct manner. This first yin, weak and lowly, represents

lowliness in both ability and position. Strict conservatism alone is appropri- THE IMAGE: Excellent withdrawal, correct and auspicious,

ate, and one should not go forth arbitrarily, for that will lead to trouble. is so because of right aspiration.



Firm and strong, balanced and upright, cooperating with wise people whose

■ 2 yin: Fasten this with the hide of a yellow ox; flexibility is balanced correctly, this withdrawal means that even if one has

no one can loosen it. heroic brilliance and extraordinary strategy, one does not reveal one's own

abilities. This is excellence in withdrawal, correct and auspicious.

THE IMAGE: Fastening with the hide of a yellow ox means



making the will firm. ■ Top yang: Withdrawal of the rich is beneficial to all. When flexible docility is balanced and correctly oriented, it cannot be influ-

enced by fame or fortune. When those in this condition carry out their aspi- THE IMAGE: Withdrawal of the rich is beneficial to all,

rations in cooperation with leaders who are firm, strong, and balanced as there is no suspicion.

correctly, then the country is on the right track and will not become devi-

This represents being strong but not excessively so, and being in the exalted

ated or stagnant.

position of tutor of future leaders, yet not being presumptuous. Therefore it

is "withdrawal of the rich" and it is "beneficial to all."

■ 3 yang: Entangled in withdrawal, there is affliction and danger,

but feeding servants and concubines leads to good results.



THE IMAGE: The danger of entanglement in withdrawal is that



there is affliction and exhaustion. The good results of feeding 34. The Power of the Great servants and concubines is not suitable for great works.

heaven below, thunder above

When one is strong and upright, one may thereby work actively, but if one

The power of the great is beneficial if correct.

abides in ultimate stillness, one will then not escape entanglement in with-

drawal. This is the path of detachment from humanity, forgetting society;

The more thorough the work of withdrawal for self-development, the more

this is the affliction of those with leadership potential.

powerful one's spiritual qualities. But once the great are powerful, the prob-

But even if one cannot do anything great, one should still urge on one's 138 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 34. The Power of the Great 139



1em is not one of inability to function effectively; the problem is when they This is because of being too sure of oneself; this is certain to lead to an

act arbitrarily with their power. The warning that the power of the great is i mpasse.



beneficial if correct is important for those who are at the point of fulfillment.



: ■ 2 yang: Correctness is auspicious. The power of the great means that

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT

the great are powerful. Strong and active, they are therefore

THE IMAGE: For the second yang, correctness is auspicious

powerful. "The power of the great is beneficial if correct"

because of balance.

means that the great should be upright. With correct

greatness, the conditions of heaven and earth can be seen. When the positive remains in a recessive position, strength is not excessive,

and gains balance. Gaining balance, it therefore becomes correct.

In the human being, there is that which is great and that which is small.

Follow the great and you will be a great person; follow the small and you



will be a small person. Now when the text speaks of the power of the great, it ■ 3 yang: Petty people use power; superior people use

means that the great is powerful. nothingness, chaste in danger. When a ram butts a fence,

Here, being strong means not being subject to disturbance by emotions; it gets its horns stuck.

being active means not being imprisoned by past habits. This is what is

meant by power. When it says this power is beneficial if correct, this is be- THE IMAGE: Petty people use power; superior people

cause that which is great is basically inherently correct. Were it not correct, disappear.

how could it be called great? Therefore, with correct greatness the condi-

Even if one is originally a superior person, if one likes power and indulges in

tions of heaven and earth can be seen.

In Buddhist terms, heaven and earth represent principle and knowledge; it, one will be the same as petty adventurers. This will only lead to exhaus-

tion, and one will not be able to break through the impasses of the time. If

they also represent concentration and insight.

one is really a superior person, even if one is full of power, one will not be

too sure of oneself and will be content to be as though naught.

Thunder is up in the sky, with great power.

THE IMAGE:

Developed people do not do what is improper.

■ 4 yang: Being correct leads to good results; regret vanishes.

Not doing what is improper, in the context of Buddhism, is what is known'as

Fences opened up, one does not get exhausted. Power is in the

compassion regulating action. axle of a great vehicle.



THE IMAGE: Fences opened up, one does not get exhausted—it

■ First yang: With power in the feet, an expedition bodes ill, is valuable to go.

having certainty.

This represents using flexibility to balance firmness, achieving correctness of

With power in the feet, that certainty comes

THE IMAGE: great power. This is how to get rid of troubles without injuring the spirit.

to an impasse. Using this to bear the world, there is gain wherever one goes.

Although we say that the great must be correct, we must realize that it is the



correct who are great. If you presume upon greatness as being correct, then ■ 5 yin: Losing the ram in ease, there is no regret. correctness turns into aberration. If you presume upon power as being great,

that greatness cannot last long. If you presume upon correctness as being THE IMAGE: Losing the ram in ease, the position is not powerful, that power will surely deteriorate. This is why ancient political appropriate.

guidelines teach the gentle mastery of high illuminates.

Now this first yang represents excessive strength that is not balanced. To When one is flexible and balanced, there is no attitude of rambunctious

proceed in an adamant and unbalanced way will surely lead to bad results. strength, so there is no regret. "The position is not appropriate" means



THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING 35. Advance 141

140

that one is as though master of the world but does not have anything to do In terms of contemplating mind, the light of fundamental real knowledge

emerges by breaking through the ground of ignorance; therefore it is called

with it.

"light emerging over the ground." Concentration and insight are together,

stopping confusion and seeing truth are not two; therefore it is called "fol-

■ Top yin: The ram butting the fence cannot retreat, cannot go lowing and cleaving to great illumination." The real nature of ignorance is

ahead. There is no benefit. Work hard and there will be good none other than the buddha-nature. When ignorance is overturned, it trans-

results. forms into enlightenment, so "flexibility progresses and moves upward." Be-

cause of this virtue and knowledge grow and improve over and over.

THE IMAGE: Inability to retreat or go ahead is due to

carelessness. Work hard and there will be good results,

THE IMAGE: Light emerges over the ground, advancing.

because error will not increase.

Developed people illumine the quality of enlightenment by

This represents weakness of both character and position; there is only the themselves.

name of power, without real meaning. Therefore there is no benefit.

The essence of fundamental awareness is called "the quality of enlighten-

However, those who use weakness skillfully need not seek an empty

ment." The accomplishment of awakening to this is called "illumination."

reputation of great power; let them just work hard to keep to the way of

The nonexistence of objects outside mind is called "by oneself." When you

gentle mastery, and weakness can overcome strength, thus leading to good

illumine the quality of enlightenment by yourself, then renewal of the

results. This exhorts those who cannot go forward to retreat.

people and resting in ultimate good are therein.



■ First yin: Advancing, impeded, it bodes well to be correct. If

there is no trust, be easygoing, and there will be no blame.



35. Advance THE IMAGE: Advancing, impeded, one carries out what is right

earth below, fire above alone. Being easygoing, without blame, is not accepting fate.



Advancing, a securely established lord is presented with All six lines of Advance correspond to those who illumine the quality of en-

horses in abundance and grants audience three times a day. lightenment by themselves and thus renew the people, but the times and

positions are not the same, and what is developed is also different, so good

If one is very powerful and upright, then one can advance to the realm of and bad, regret and shame, are differentiated.

self-help and helping others. In this peaceful and secure time, a wise lord The first yin represents concentration that has matching insight and is also

gains the favor of a sage ruler and is given many horses as a rich reward. pliable; therefore it is possible to make progress and advance. However, it is

"Granting audience three times a day" signifies diligence in dealing with the at the bottom of the hexagram, and in correspondence with the "squirrels"

people. of the fourth yang, who are not good companions; so it is certainly not ap-

In terms of contemplating mind, subtle observing knowledge is the "se- propriate to progress quickly. Hence there is obstruction and one is impeded.

curely established lord," and increasing virtues in conformity with essence But advancement and impediment are both externals—what have they to

is being "presented with horses in abundance." Witnessing the noumenal do with one's self? Just remain correct, and it will turn out well. Even if this

body of reality is "granting audience three times a day." is temporarily insufficient to gain trust, just deal with it in an easygoing

manner, and in the end there will be no blame.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Advance is progress. Light emerges When it says that "one carries out what is right alone," this means one has

. self-confidence and does not seek to be acknowledged by others. When it

over the ground, following and cleaving to great illumination

speaks of "not accepting fate," this is what the philosopher Mencius was re-

Flexibility progresses and moves upward; therefore a securely

ferring to when he said, "Fate has its own nature; developed people do not

established lord is presented with horses in abundance and

speak of fate."

grants audience three times a day.

I42 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 36. Damage of Illumination (Concealment of Illumination) 143



■ 2 yin: Advancing, grieving, it is good to be correct. thing to the best advantage. This is a government that "follows and cleaves to This is what is called self-renewal and renewal of the people, using every-

One receives this great blessing from one's grandmother.

great illumination," so it has "good results, beneficial to all." The whole

THE IMAGE: One receives this great blessing because of balance world reaps the blessings, so what loss of gains is there to worry about?

and rectitude.

Here flexible docility is balanced and correct; one illumines the quality of ■ Top yang: Advancing the horns; this requires conquering one's

domain. Hard work leads to good results, without blame; but

enlightenment by oneself, constantly feeling the grief of not yet seeing real-

even though correct, one is humiliated.

ity. This is one who is correct and has good luck. Sharing in the virtues of

the "grandmother" of the fifth yin above, one receives the blessings that are THE IMAGE: This requires conquering one's domain, because

one's basic right; therefore it is called "great blessing." the way is not yet illumined.



The top yang also represents outer strength with inner weakness, outer light

■ 3 yin: The group approves; regret vanishes. with inner darkness; and it is at the culmination of advance, so it is like the

THE IMAGE: The group approves; the aim is upward progress. horns of an animal: goring people with horns is had for them. This calls for

self-mastery, which may he likened to "conquering one's domain." So "hard

This represents concentration with matching insight, at the time for advanc- work leads to good results, without blame." However, since one was unable

ing, with optimum pliability. Whereas in the first yin there was a lack of to govern oneself early on, and only now has been capable of self-mastery,

trust, when easygoing development reaches this point, everyone approves even though it is correct, it is still humiliating. and regret vanishes. Living in obscurity to seek one's aim, carrying out one's

duty to arrive on the right path, thus "the aim is upward progress."



■ 36. Damage of Illumination 4 yang: Advancing like a squirrel is dangerous even if

determined. (Concealment of Illumination)



THE IMAGE: Advancing like a squirrel is dangerous even if fire below, earth above



determined, because the position is not appropriate. When illumination is damaged, it is beneficial to be upright

in difficulty.

When developed people illumine the quality of enlightenment by them-

selves, they should be dark on the outside and light on the inside—that is,

they should be outwardly unnoticeable while inwardly illumined. But this If one knows how to advance but not how to withdraw, there will surely be

fourth yang represents outward strength with inner weakness, outward light damage. When illumination goes underground, its light does not shine. If

with inward darkness—it is like a squirrel, which can run and jump, but not you know that being upright in difficulty is beneficial, this is illumination

through use of darkness.

very fast and not very far. Its capabilities are limited, and it is in danger. This

is the case of people who are in high positions without any real virtue.

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Illumination goes underground;



■ not worry about loss of gains. To go 5 yin: Regret vanishes. Do outwardly pliable, one thus suffers great difficulties. It is illumination is damaged or concealed. Inwardly civilized,

leads to good results, beneficial all around. beneficial to be upright in difficulty, in the sense of obscuring



THE IMAGE: not worry about loss of gains. If you go, there Do one's illumination. Be able to make your aims upright in spite

of internal difficulties.

will be joy.

In terms of contemplating mind, this means that afflictions, bad habits, ill-

This represents concentration with insight, in command of the intellect,

nesses, bedevilments, conceits, and false views are all excellent objects for

having attained the way of balance, occupying the position of leadership.

144 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 36. Damage of Illumination (Concealment of Illumination) 145



the exercise of complete all-at-once cessation of confusion and seeing of But since ignorance has been a ruling force for so long, it is impossible to

accomplish this overthrow hastily; it must be sustained by rectitude.

truth.



THE IMAGE: Illumination goes underground, in concealment of ■ 4 yin: Entering the left belly, finding the heart of illumination illumination. In dealing with the masses, true leaders act

in concealment and going out of the house.

unobtrusively while in fact being illumined.

THE IMAGE: Entering the left belly is finding the heart's intent.

This means using stillness to control movement, using darkness to peer into

the light. These are functions of concealment of illumination. What sages

This is flexibility that is correctly oriented. This is like one who recognizes

learn is to become daily more illumined unbeknownst to others. an illuminate in concealment and withdraws allegiance from the ignorant.



■ First yang: Illumination concealed in flight, letting the wings ■ 5 yin: The concealment of illumination on the part of a just

droop, superior people on a journey, not eating for three days, scion of an evil ruling house is beneficial and upright. have a place to go. The ruler has something to say.

THE IMAGE: The uprightness of a just scion of an evil ruling

THE IMAGE: When superior people are on a journey, house is that his understanding cannot be suppressed.

it is right that they do not eat.

This represents being outwardly flexible while inwardly strong, remaining

This is like just people fleeing a vicious tyrant: letting the wings droop

balanced in the middle, appearing to be ignorant while actually being il-

means not revealing the flying form; and such is the speed of travel that they lumined. That illumination shines throughout all ages. do not have the leisure to eat for three days. This is because it is right to flcP

far away; they do not wish the tyrannical ruler to know and speak against

them. ■ Top yin: In the darkness of ignorance, first ascending to heaven,

later going underground.



■ the left leg, THE IMAGE: 2 yin: Illumination concealed, injured in First ascending to heaven is lighting up the

going to the rescue, it is lucky if the horse is strong. nations; later going underground is losing guidance.



THE IMAGE: The luck of the second yin is in model obedience. This is the extreme of damage of illumination, like one who was once an

emperor and then later became an isolated individual. The first five lines all

This represents the virtues of cultured intelligence, balance, and up- represent being illumined but appearing to be ignorant, thus being able to

rightness. In this time when illumination is concealed, even though the use apparent ignorance in an enlightened way. This line represents the ig-

work of the left leg is injured, one still goes to the rescue; only because the norance of not understanding, whereby one loses guidance and so goes

horse is strong is there luck. This is like leading people to work for the good underground.

of the country, in spite of having been mistreated by ignorant people in au-

thority, obeying temporal authority and not overtly rebelling; this is truly a

ti meless model.



■ 3 yang: Illumination concealed, hunting in the south,

catching the big chief, hasty correction will not do.



THE IMAGE: The aim of hunting in the south is a big catch.



This is the end of the night, just before dawn. This is like when the en-

lightened who have been in concealment overthrow the reign of ignorance.

THE BUDDHIST I CHING 37. People in the Home 147

146

When one world is pure, then all worlds are pure; this is called making

the home correct, so that the country is stable.



37. People in the Home THE IMAGE: Wind emerges from fire, members of a family.

Developed people are factual in speech, consistent in action.

fire below, wind above



For people in the home, it is beneficial for the women Fire is fanned by wind, but now "wind emerges from fire"—this is like the

to be chaste. way a family is transformed by virtue, and now virtue is spread from the

family.



If we want to heal the wounds of the nation, nothing compares to turning When there is factuality in speech, it is not untrue; when there is consis-

our attention to the home. And if we want to rectify family life, nothing tency in action, it is not mere display. Thereby it is possible to regulate the

compares to strictness about the chastity of the women. family and nation.

In Buddhist terms, when contemplation practice is disturbed by demons, So it is also in Buddhism: when behavior is pure, it is then possible to

one should just remember that it is only mind. Only mind is the "home" of absorb virtue and help people.

Buddhism. And it is necessary to sustain insight by concentration, to assist



knowledge by virtue, and to reveal essence by cultivation; this is called the ■ First yang: Guarding the home, regret vanishes. benefit of female chastity.

THE IMAGE: Guarding the home, the aim does not change.

For people in the home, the woman 's

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Beginning a home with firm rectitude, speaking factually and acting consis-

proper position inside, the man's proper position is outside. is tently to guard it, one can thus ensure that it will not break up. In terms of

For men and women to be in their proper positions is Buddhism, this refers to learning discipline. universally important. The people in the home have a strict

rulership, which is the father and mother. When a parent

behaves like a parent, a child like a child, an elder like an ■ 2 yin: Not concentrating on anything but household duties,

elder, a youth like a youth, a husband like a husband, and a it bodes well to be chaste.

wife like a wife, then the conduct of the household is correct.

THE IMAGE: What bodes well in the second yin is docile

Make the home correct, and the country will be stable.

obedience.

In Buddhist terms, when meditation concentration supports the mind, then

Here flexibility is balanced and correct, and is in charge of the inner situa-

inwardly one merges with the substance of reality; when knowledge under-

stands external objects, then outwardly one carries on transformative tion. Therefore one does not dare to be self-centered or willful in anything,

but only concentrate on household duties. In Buddhist terms, this refers to

functions.

learning concentration.

When cultivated concentration and insight are equally correct, they are

based on the nonduality of inherent tranquillity and awareness. In the

causal state they are called man and woman; in the resulting state they are ■ 3 yang: When people in the home are strict, conscientious

called father and mother. Once one has realized the qualities of fruition, all diligence leads to good results. When the women and children

possible realms of consciousness are subject to one's mastery; this is called a are frivolous, it will end in humiliation.

"strict rulership."

When essence and cultivation arc not mixed up, this is called a parent THE IMAGE: It is not a mistake for the people in the home to be

behaving like a parent and a child like a child. When the absolute truth and strict. When the women and children are frivolous, the order

conventional truth are simultaneously illumined, this is called an elder be- of the household is lost.

having like an elder and a youth like a youth. When virtue and wisdom sus-

Excessive firmness that is not balanced seems to make the mistake of being

tain each other, this is called a husband behaving like a husband and a wife

too strict and demanding, but from the point of view of the correct way of

like a wife.

148 38. Opposition 149 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



ordering the home, it is not a mistake and in fact leads to good results. If you

fear conscientious diligence and give yourself over to frivolity, it may seem

comfortable at first, but ultimately you will lose order in the home and suffer 38. Opposition

humiliation. In Buddhist terms, this is learning wisdom.

take below, fire above



■ Opposition; a small matter will turn out all right. 4 yin: A rich home is very fortunate.



THE IMAGE: A rich home is very fortunate, docilely occupying For those who skillfully cultivate themselves and thereby harmonize their

its position. families, the whole world can be one home. If the ordering of the family is

not correct, however, then opposition and alienation arise in the family. This

Here flexibility is correctly oriented and acts as the director of docility. This is represented by the juxtaposition of a body of water and fire; water tends to

is what is called producing wealth in the right way. In Buddhist terms, this is go downward, fire tends to go upward. If the aims of people in a group are

when a good state of mind arises through enlightening practices, richly em- not the same, how can anything great be accomplished? So it is also with

bued with myriad virtues; this is called liberation. contemplating mind: there is transmundane meditation and mundane medi-

tation; one is higher, one is lower—they proceed in different ways. Before



■ one understands how to harmonize them completely, one can only attain

5 yang: The king has a great home. Do not worry;

small realization.

it is auspicious.



The king has a great home, with communication — THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Opposition when fire moves, it goes

THE IMAGE:

and mutual love. upward; when water moves, it goes downward; two women

live together, but their aims are not the same. Joyfully cleaving

This represents positive strength balanced correctly and in the position of

to illumination, flexibility goes forward and moves upward,

leadership, in which all the world is one's home. The great way is impartial;

attains balance and responds to firmness. Therefore a small

what worry is there? When the leaders find happiness in the happiness of

matter will turn out all right. Heaven and earth are opposite,

the people, then the people will also find happiness in the happiness of the but their work is the same; man and woman are opposite, but

leaders. Therefore there is communication and mutual love. their aim is in common; myriad beings are disparate, but their

In Buddhist terms, this means discovery of the essential mind that is the

affairs are of a kind. The timely use of opposition is great

true basis of enlightenment; essence and cultivation interpenetrate, revealing indeed. the qualities of the real spiritual being.

To interpret this in Buddhist terms, when tranquillity and awareness are



■ Top yang: There is truthfulness, which is impressive. same. When stopping confusion and seeing truth are practiced together, this one, this is called heaven and earth being opposite while their work is the

The end is auspicious. is called man and woman being opposite but having an aim in common.

Myriad practices are all of two kinds—main practices and auxiliary prac-

THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about his impressiveness

tices. These two kinds of practice are not apart from what is inherent, just as

is that it calls for personal transformation.

myriad beings are not apart from positive and negative energies, positive

Strong but not excessive, one's virtue can be trusted, so it is impressive with- and negative energies are not apart from the absolute. This is called myriad

out force. In Buddhist terms, this is when the knowledge on which en- things being disparate while their affairs are of a kind.

lightenment is based emerges, worthy and important in that it is in accord

with the design of reality; this is called the quality of transcendent wisdom. THE IMAGE: Above is fire, below is a lake—opposite.

Developed people are the same yet different.



When you look at appearances, which are basically unreal, the appearances

are different, so it seems that essence is also differentiated. When you look at 150 38. Opposition 151 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



essence, which is basically real, since essence is the same, appearances are ■ 2 yang: Meeting the ruler in an alley, there is no blame.

also fundamentally the same.

THE I MAGE: Meeting the ruler in an alley does not deviate

Only developed people know how to be the same yet different, so they do

from the right way.

not obscure sameness by difference. They know that differences are based on

sameness, so they know that different stages of spiritual development are

It is imperative to thoroughly understand the affairs of the mind in every

based on a fundamental identity of enlightenment, and do not shrink from

detail; this is like meeting the ruler in an alley. The meeting of ruler and min-

going through the stages. They know that there are differences in the stages

ister is the constant way of all time; how could it be said to be lost because it

in spite of fundamental sameness, so even though they realize this identity

is "in an alley"?

of mind and Buddha, they also understand the need for the stages and do

not become conceited.

They know the different stages are based on the same enlightenment, so ■ 3 yin: Having the vehicle dragged back, the ox halted, the

they merge with the real source; they know the sameness of enlightenment person is punished by heaven. There is no beginning, but

does not abridge the differences in the stages, so they carry on all necessary there is an end.

practices.

THE IMAGE: Having the vehicle dragged back means being

They know that differences are based on sameness, so there is no buddha-

out of place. Having an end without a beginning means

hood above to attain and no unenlightened people below to liberate. They

encountering firmness.

know there are differences in spite of sameness, so they perpetually adorn



pure lands and teach people to transform them. This represents having no balance or proper orientation and doubting one-

They know that differences are based on sameness, so neither samsara nor

self, therefore arbitrarily having one's "vehicle dragged back" and "ox

nirvana can be grasped. They know there are differences in spite of same-

halted," meaning that one does not dare to proceed to follow those who are

ness, so they sometimes roam at play in samsara and sometimes appear to

more highly developed. Yet one still thinks one is going to work for the

enter nirvana. benefit of others. Sure to be punished by those above, one cannot communi-

cate one's honest feelings, so there is no beginning.

■ First yang: But when opposition culminates, there must be reconciliation, so one's Regret vanishes. Having lost the horse, do not chase

it —it will come back by itself. Seeing evil people, there is no intentions will eventually become clear in the end. Luckily one encounters

the firmness of the highly developed and in the end can meet without hos-

blame.

tilities. Therefore there is an end.

THE IMAGE: Seeing evil people, one avoids blame.



This represents being firm and upright, without correspondents, in the be- ■ 4 yang: The solitude of opposition. Meeting good people,

ginning of opposition. Proceed trusting in this, and there will be no error associate sincerely, work hard, and there will be no blame.

and so regret vanishes.

THE IMAGE: Associate sincerely, and there will be no blame,

Even if you have "lost the horse," there is no need to chase it, for "it will

for the aim will be carried out.

come back by itself"—this is an exhortation not to let gain and loss disturb



your spirit. Opposition can only be resolved when there is communication. The fourth

Even if you meet evil people, there is no harm in seeing them, for you can

yang has no partner, so it is called the solitude of opposition. However, the

be blameless—this is an exhortation not to let good and bad divide your firm uprightness represented by the first yang is below, and this can resolve

mind. opposition. At this time, people of similar qualities trust one another and

Whenever thoughts of gain and loss become serious, or the idea of good their interaction refines one another. This is how to carry out the aim of

and bad is too defined, then what is the same will be differentiated, and resolving opposition, so that there is no blame. what is different cannot be made the same. Only when we follow firm and

upright celestial virtue do gain and loss disappear, good and bad merge.

Then even if we are in a time of oppositions, we can be free of regret. ■ 5 yin: Regret vanishes. With the ally in close cooperation, what

is wrong with proceeding?





i


152 39. Trouble 153 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



THE IMAGE: With the ally in close cooperation, to proceed will

result in celebration.

39. Trouble

This represents the alliance of a flexible leader with a strong administrator;

when leader and adminstrator are in harmony, in the end opposition can be mountain below, water above

resolved.

When in trouble, it is beneficial to go southwest;

it is not beneficial to go northeast. It is beneficial to

■ Top yang: Isolated in opposition, seeing a pig covered with see a great person. Correctness leads to good results.

mire, a wagonload of devils, first drawing a bow, later putting

Whenever unharmonized differences are not reconciled, whatever you do

the bow down, not enemies but partners, going on,

there will be many obstacles and difficulties. However, when you are at an

encountering rain, then there is good fortune.

impasse, is there is no good strategy for getting out of difficulty? Go south-

THE IMAGE: west—this means joyfulness, harmony, clarity; this is the essential way of The good fortune of encountering rain is that

doubts disappear. getting out of difficulty. To go northeast means halting and danger, only in-

creasing trouble. Only great people can solve trouble; only the correct way

The top yang corresponds with the third yin, so basically it is not isolated, can lead out of trouble. Trouble therefore can stir the forebearance of the

but opposition is not yet reconciled, so it seems isolated. The third yin is mind to increase your ability to do what you could not do before, thus lead-

basically not influenced by the second and fourth yangs, but it seems to be ing to good results.

despoiled, so this is "seeing a pig covered with mire." The second and fourth

each have a spontaneous meeting and have no intention of despoiling the

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Trouble is difficulty; danger lies

third, but falsely give rise to doubt; so this is "a wagonload of devils." First

there was serious doubt, resulting in "first drawing a bow" to shoot; later the ahead. Being able to stop on seeing danger is knowledge. In

doubt is lessened, resulting in "later putting the bow down" and going to see trouble, it is beneficial to go southwest, in the sense of

achieving balance; it is not beneficial to go northeast, for that

it. When the top yang sees that the third yin is after all not an enemy, they

path comes to an end. It is beneficial to see a great person, in

marry, and the relief is like clouds bursting into rain, resulting in good for-

that there is merit in going. Correctness in the right place

tune. Not doubting the third, it therefore does not doubt the second and

leads to good results, whereby it is possible to rectify the

fourth, so "doubts disappear."

country. Timely action in trouble is great indeed.



To discuss the six lines overall, only the firm rectitude of the first yang is the Foolish people are so absorbed in the subjectivity of emotions and desires

very best at resolving opposition; the others are not really correct, so it is that even when unexpected danger looms before them, they are blind to it.

necessary to cooperate in order to achieve resolution. In Buddhist terms, it Because they do not see it, of course they cannot stop in time. If you are able

means that only fundamental true wisdom can arrive at difference based on to stop, not only will you avoid falling into danger, but you will seek from it

sameness, thereby always being the same in the midst of differences. Other- a good strategy for getting out of danger—is this not knowledge?

wise, it is necessary to rely on the mutual assistance of concentration and Starting from a situation of danger and halting (symbolized by "north-

insight, the twin operation of stopping confusion and seeing truth, in order east"), going to clarity, joyfulness, and harmony (symbolized by "south-

to be able to give up personality differences to enter into universal essence. west"), one can thereby combine firmness and flexibility and so attain bal-



ance. If one keeps to the northeast, one will wind up in danger and

ultimately be stopped.

Only in the fifth yang in the hexagram is positive strength balanced cor-

rectly; this is the state of a great person, where one can save the country

from trouble. Therefore those who go to see such a one will have the merit

of helping the country out of danger.

But among the six lines, only the top yin illustrates the benefit in seeing a

154 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 39. Trouble 155



great person; the others do not speak of it, because seeing a great person is All the lines but this one represent knowledge as the ability to stop. This

also a natter of proper timing. When it is time to stop, then stop, and when one does not becaue it represents what is called working for a leader with all

it is time to go, then go. Timely action when in trouble completely embodies one has in the public interest, forgetting about oneself. Therefore it may

timely action in the universal process of transformation expounded in the I seem adventurous, but in the end there is no bitterness.

Ching. All of the sixty-four hexagrams are like this, but I just bring it up here Not acting selfishly is based on having examined oneself. If one can com-

because it is commonly neglected. prehend trouble by daily self-examination, only then can one solve troubles

i mpersonally when the time comes.



THE IMAGE: Water on a mountain—trouble. Developed people

examine themselves to cultivate virtue. ■ 3 yang: Going means trouble; come back.



Mountains nurture springs, which should provide moisture but not flood; THE IMAGE: Going means trouble; come back, and those inside

here water flows over the top, so that people cannot get a foothold. This will rejoice at this.

means there is a cleft in the mountain; it is not a fault of the water.

Developed people know that all dangerous and difficult situations are The third yang is the master of the mountain trigram, which represents stop-

made and manifested by their own minds, so they do not dare to resent ping; it stands for one who is strong and upright, and can stop on seeing

heaven or bear a grudge against people; they just examine themselves to danger. Since one knows that to go would surely mean trouble, one comes

cultivate their virtues, just as people might fix a mountain by filling in a cleft back to examine oneself and cultivate virtue; then those represented by the

so that water will flow back into a valley and not run off to the side. inside two lines will both rejoice.



■ ■ 4 yin: Going means trouble; coming back brings company. First yin: Going means trouble; coming is praised.



THE IMAGE: THE IMAGE: Going means trouble, coming back brings Going means trouble; coming is praised.

It is best to wait. company; one's position is solidified.



In troublesome situations, knowledge is to see the danger and be able to Here we are now in the body of the water trigram, which symbolizes danger;

stop. Therefore the lines all warn about going and allow coming. Here, the trouble is extreme. However, if one can come back to examine oneself

"coming" means turning around to examine oneself and cultivate inner and cultivate virtue, then one can still bring along the three lines of the

qualities. mountain trigram and be able to stop. Yin is basically not solid, so bringing

The first yin represents seeing danger and immediately stopping, knowing back company to one's position solidifies it. This refers to the third yang,

the situation and not getting into difficulty. The achievement of self- which stands for mastery of stopping.

examination and cultivation of virtue is earliest, so it can win praise. It is not



shilly-shallying and shrinking back in fear. The reasonable thing to do is just ■ 5 yang: In great trouble, companions come. to cultivate one's inner qualities and await the right time.

THE IMAGE: In great trouble, companions come, because of

■ balance and moderation. 2 yin: King and minister recognize trouble as trouble,



not for personal reasons. In the middle of water is great trouble. Here firm strength is balanced and

correct, and the flexibility represented by the second yin cooperates, so it

THE IMAGE: King and minister recognize trouble as trouble,

gets a "companion" to come, and together they solve the trouble.

so in the end there is no bitterness.

However, it is not that a companion comes to help one here; it is actually

This represents flexibility balanced correctly, examining oneself without because of one's fulfillment of the way of balance, as a moderating guideline

shame, cooperating with a leader having positive strength balanced cor- for getting out of trouble, that those represented by the lines above and be-

rectly, as represented by the fifth yang. When in trouble, how can they not low take one as an example. This is like Shakyamuni Buddha appearing in a

recognize trouble as trouble and so work together? corrupt world, attaining supreme enlightenment, and explaining to all the

156 40. Solution 157 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



truth, so hard to believe. This is truly one who can do what is very difficult THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: For a solution, one acts because of

and rarely accomplished. danger, and through action escapes from danger; hence the

solution. For solution, the southwest is beneficial, as to go



■ Top yin: there wins the masses. Coming back is fortunate, in that one

Going means trouble; coming means great good

attains balance. Going somewhere, promptness is fortunate, in

fortune. It is beneficial to see a great person.

that going is successful. Heaven and earth dissolve, and there

THE IMAGE: Going means trouble; coming means great good is thunder and rain. When it thunders and rains, the sprouts of

fortune. The aim is within. It is beneficial to see a great the fruitful plants and trees shed their sheaths. The time of

solution is great indeed.

person, by following what is valuable.



Here one is weak and in extreme danger; how could one go anywhere? When danger lies ahead, it is best to stop; when danger is below, one should

Only if one comes to examine oneself and cultivate inner qualities will one act to avoid it. Both of these are matters of the conditions of the time, and

have great good fortune. The reason this good fortune can be truly great is cannot be forced.

through the benefit of seeing a great person, as represented by the fifth yang. The southwest stands for earth, so to go there wins the masses. Coming

Superior people seek this in themselves, so "the aim is within," and thus back to the northeast means not being too soft, so that one attains balance.

there is good fortune. To help society and cause the people to grow, nothing By perceiving the onset of events early on, one can proceed successfully.

is as good as virtue, so the benefit of seeing the great is that of following This is like the thunder and rain of heaven and earth; when it is prompt and

what is valuable. Here, "what is valuable" refers to spiritual values, not just ti mely, the sprouts of the fruitful plants and trees shed their sheaths.

ordinary human values; "great good fortune" refers to something like that of To interpret in terms of contemplating mind, full cultivation of meditation

the saint Subhadra, who saw the Buddha at the end and attained liberation. concentration is the benefit of the southwest. The manifest activation of

myriad practices is "going there wins the masses." Not abandoning accurate

observation is called "coming back." Witnessing the body of reality is "at-

taining balance."



40.

Solution Going somewhere to help people, it is necessary to be able to perceive

their potentials from the start; then it will be fortunate. By explaining the

water below, thunder above truth usefully, "going is successful."

The merging of essential nature and cultivation is "heaven and earth dis-

For solution, the southwest is beneficial. Going nowhere,

solving." Compassion regulates the activity of thunder and showers the rain

coming back is fortunate. Going somewhere, promptness is

of liberative teaching, so the fruits of realization, mundane and transmun-

fortunate.

dane, each attain timely growth, maturity, and release. Who but buddhas

and bodhisattvas can use this time of solution?

In worldly situations, there are never troublesome obstacles that last forever

without resolution. On the verge of the solution, it is important that

firmness and flexibility balance each other, so "the southwest is beneficial." THE IMAGE: Thunder and rain—solution. Thus do leaders

Once the solution has been achieved, the general situation is settled, so forgive errors and pardon crimes.

where else is there to go? It is just a matter of corning back to the perennial

Way, that is all. This means directly forgiving transgressions made by mistake, getting

But even if there is somewhere to go, in every case one should examine people to renew themselves, and also generously pardoning crimes to mini-

mize their ramifications.

the matter thoroughly right away. If one goes precipitately without due con-

In Buddhist terms, this refers to using the three kinds of repentance—by

sideration, misfortune will follow along—how can one be fortunate?

When good generals mobilize armies, they only expect the soldiers to be confession, by visualization, and by contemplation of nonorigination—to

obedient. When good physicians use medicine, they only hope to get rid of enable people to solve doubts and get away from guilt.

the disease. In the practice and realization of contemplating mind, the only In terms of contemplating mind, this is sitting upright and meditating on

reality so as to melt away all wrongdoing.

aim is to return to essence; there is nothing else to grasp.

158 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 40. Solution 159



■ The third is below the fourth and wishes to carry the fourth, so the fourth First yin: No blame.

regards the third as a toe. The fourth is not yet in the right position and is

THE IMAGE: At the border of hard and soft, it is right that there not as good as the second yang, in which firm strength is balanced. The sec-

should be no blame. ond yang can hunt and catch the "fox" of the third, thereby following the

fifth yin to balance yin and yang. The fourth must await the arrival of the

Solution means that yin and yang arc in harmony. This line represents being

second before it can believe that the toe should be removed. The second and

yin at the beginning, while cooperating with the fourth yang above, being

fourth are both yang, so they are called companions.

right on the borderline of yin and yang; so it is right that there should be no



blame.

■ 5 yin: The developed person here has a solution, which is

fortunate. There is sincerity toward a petty person.

■ 2 yang: Catching the third fox on a hunt, finding a yellow

arrow, correctness brings good fortune. THE IMAGE: The developed person has a solution.

The petty person withdraws.

THE IMAGE: The good fortune of correctness of the second yang

is attaining the way of balance. The fifth and the second are proper correspondents, but the third wants to

ride on the second, so the fifth cannot but have doubts about the second.

Here, because firmness is balanced and cooperates with the flexibility of the

Luckily the "developed person" represented by the second yang is firm and

fifth yin, there is naturally nothing to be suspicious of. The third yin is not

balanced, not correct, but wants to take one over; this is represented as "the balanced, certainly able to achieve a solution, getting rid of the third yin and

third fox." One goes on a "hunt," "catches" it, and gets rid of it, thus getting going up to follow the fifth yin, which is fortunate. Just observe the with-

to join with the flexible balance of the fifth yin; this is correct and leads to drawal of the third yin, and you will believe that the second yang has a

solution.

good fortune.

Yellow is the color associated with the center; an arrow represents a



straight path. By gaining the path of balance and straightforwardness, one ■ Top yin: The lord shoots a hawk on a high wall and gets it, to gets rid of doubts and cooperates with what is right. the benefit of all.



enemies. THE IMAGE: The lord shoots the hawk to solve the conflict.

■ 3 yin: Carrying and riding brings on

It is right to be humiliated. A hawk flies high and attacks skillfully; this represents the third yin, which

"carries and rides." At the time of solution, everyone happily acts as devel-

THE IMAGE: Carrying and riding are both disgraceful. One

oped people do, all except the third yin, who flies to the attack, in conflict

brings on attack by oneself—who else is to blame?

with reason. Though the second "hunts" it, and though the fourth "re-

This line represents weakness, not balanced and not correct, without a part- moves" it, this is because both of them have proper correspondents; they are

ner, wanting to carry the fourth above and ride the second below, unaware not the same as the top yin, which is outside the situation. Also, yang and

that this is not the right way to go. Therefore the second regards this as yin feelings must have each other, so one considers it a "fox," the other con-

"foxy" and hunts it, the fourth regards it as a "big toe" and removes it, the siders it a "toe"—this is not as good as the top yin, who has no emotional

fifth regards it as a "petty person" and repels it, the top regards it as a involvement at all, and just considers it a "hawk." Furthermore, the top yin

"hawk" and shoots it. Is this not the epitome of humiliation? is at the end of the hexagram, the position of the lord. It is flexible, yet cor-

rectly oriented, so it hides its weapon, waiting for the right time to act, thus

getting the hawk, to everyone's benefit.

■ 4 yang: Remove your big toe. When a companion comes,

then you trust.

Interpreting the six lines in terms of contemplating mind, the third yin

THE IMAGE: Removing your big toe, you are not yet represents the confusion that is to be cured, and the other five lines repre-

sent curative methods.

in the right position.

160 41. Reduction 161 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



The first uses insightful concentration, in cooperation with the concen- any other realm of experience. Without destroying the two truths, absolute

trated insight represented by the fourth yang above. Confusion cannot bur- and relative, they present the middle way.

den one then, so "there is no blame."

The second yang uses insight into the center of all things, in cooperation THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Reduction reduces the lower to

with concentration on the center of all things, as represented by the fifth yin

increase the higher; the path goes upward. "Reduction with

above; but the third yin uses trifling mundane concentration and insight to

sincerity is very auspicious and impeccable. It should be

take over before realization, hoping to confuse it. Therefore it is necessary to

correct. It is beneficial to have somewhere to go. What is the

hunt down and repel foxy doubts, so as to attain the true way that is bal-

use of the two bowls? They can be used for presentation." The

anced and straightforward. t wo bowls must have their times; reducing hardness and

The third yin relies on worldly meditation to foster worldly knowledge,

increasing softness must have their times; reduction and

producing arrogance and opinionated views, falsely pretending to en-

increase, filling and emptying, go along with the time.

lightenment; therefore it is to be overcome by the right path.

The fourth yang represents concentrated insight, which can certainly cure Helping those below is "increase," going upward is "reduction." Sages estab-

confusion; but because it is borne by the opinionated conceit of' the third yin lished this term observing the way of the world, which never changes. There

and has not yet attained the way of balance, it must await the insight into the must be sincerity in higher things before it is possible to reduce lower things

center of all things represented by the second yang before it can remove this in a way that is very auspicious and impeccable. There must be correctness

inner confusion. in lower things before it is beneficial to have a place to go and increase

The fifth yin uses concentration on the way of balance at the center of all higher things. Even though there are two bowls, they can still be used for

things to cooperate with the second yang's insight into the center of all presentation; it is only a matter of the right timing of each, it being impor-

things; insight can cut through confusion, so concentration then accords tant to go along with the time.

with essential reality.



false pride and false views of worldly meditation and worldly knowledge, so The top yin uses correct transmundane concentration to overcome the — THE IMAGE: Lake below a mountain reducing. Thus do developed people eliminate anger and greed. it is to the benefit of all.

When there is a body of water below a mountain, the mountain will be re-

duced day by day. Developed people consider anger and greed to be most in

need of reduction from the mind; therefore they eliminate anger as they

would blast a mountain to smithereens, and eliminate greed as they would



41. Reduction fill in a ravine, restoring a level ground surface.



lake below, mountain above ■ First yang:

Ending one's affairs and going quickly, there is no

Reduction with sincerity is very auspicious and impeccable. fault. Assess the reduction of this.

It should be correct. It is beneficial to have somewhere to

go. What is the use of the two bowls? They can be used for THE IMAGE: Ending one's affairs and going quickly is because

presentation. of valuing unification of aims.



Once confusion is cured, from this point on one increases enlightenment The first yang is a proper correspondent of the fourth yin; here one should

and reduces mundanity. This is reduction in terms of contemplating mind. reduce oneself to enhance the fourth. The fourth yin is weak and ailing, so

Those who contemplate mind believe that the realm of enlightenment is one should end one's own affairs and quickly go to help; then there is no

none other than all possible realms of experience; therefore "reduction with fault. However, when using strength to help the weak, assess carefully so as

sincerity is very auspicious and impeccable." They know that all possible to obtain balance; do not allow excess. Because strength that is correctly

realms of experience are none other than the realm of enlightenment, so oriented responds to one who is weak but correctly oriented, therefore pro-

ceeding in this way results in unification of aims.

they benefit from going to the realm of enlightenment without displacing





I


162 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 42. Increase 163



■ 2 yang: It is beneficial to be correct. An expedition would lead one's material goods, and therefore one can attract the admiration of the

to misfortune. Increase it without reduction. world, so all come bringing treasure. In general, when leaders can employ

administrators in an open-minded way, then they are in accord with the ce-

THE IMAGE: The benefit of correctness in the second yang is the lestial and receive help from above.

balance that characterizes its aim.



The second yang is strong and balanced, not too adamant. The fifth yin, with ■ Top yang: Increase without reduction, and there will be no

which it corresponds, is flexible and balanced, not too weak. It is enough for blame. Correctness leads to good results. There is somewhere

each to preserve its correctness, so why still go and increase one in a way to go. Getting an administrator without a house.

that would result in the misfortune of excess that is as bad as insufficiency?

When increasing without reduction, that increase is then great; therefore THE IMAGE: Increase without reduction is great attainment of

the fifth yin "is given a profit of ten tortoise shells." the objective.



The top yang receives the enhancement of the third yin to the ultimate de-

■ Three people traveling are reduced by one person. gree. If there is nothing to requite this, the third yin will not be resentful, but 3 yin:

One person traveling gets companionship. other people will not accept—then how can there be no blame, how can

there be correctness with good results, how can there be somewhere to go?

THE IMAGE: When one person travels, three then doubt. But to increase the third yin, it is necessary not to reduce the top yang. This

is because the third yin as an administrator is in the position of "losing one's

The third yin and the two lines below both represent reducing the lower to

home in the service of the country," but the top yang perceives the sincerity

increase the higher. The first two lines are yang, the third alone shifts to yin;

of this lone journey, so this is "great attainment of the objective," and the

so "three people traveling arc reduced by one person." Now, since one yin

third yin considers this "getting companionship." This is called "increase

travels upward to enhance the top yang, for oneself this is "losing one's home

without reduction."

in working for the country," but since the top yang is strong, instead it can

enhance one by "increase without reduction"—is that not "getting compan-

ionship"? So whatever one does, it is best to be single-minded.



■ 4 yin: Reducing the ailment causes there to be joy soon. 42. Increase

No blame.

thunder below, wind above



THE IMAGE: Reducing the ailment is a matter for joy. For increase, it is beneficial to go somewhere.

It is beneficial to cross great rivers.

Weakness and imbalance are an ailment. The first yang has already come

quickly to help one in this situation, so one just assists the first yang in re-

Increasing enlightenment, reducing mundanity, one progresses daily toward

ducing one's own ailment; thus the first yang is joyful, and the one in this

the realm of self-help and helping others; this is contemplating mind accom-

situation is blameless.

plishing increase. "Going somewhere" to deal with the ordinary, "crossing

great rivers" to deal with changes, if one attains the path of increase, there is

■ 5 yin: One is given a profit of ten pairs of tortoise shells. all-around benefit.

None can oppose. This is very auspicious.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Increase is reducing the higher to

THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about the fifth yin is help from

enhance the lower; the people rejoice boundlessly. Descending

above.

from above to below, that path is great and brilliant. "It is

In this state of flexible balance, one sets oneself at naught to respond to the beneficial to go somewhere"—balance and rectitude are

second yang. The second yang, maintaining propriety, does not increase felicitous. "It is beneficial to cross great rivers"—the path of

164 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 42. Increase 165

harmony is then carried out. Increase moves and tames, ■ 2 yin: One is given ten sets of tortoise shells; none can oppose.

progressing daily, without bound. Heaven disburses, earth It bodes well to be always correct. It bodes well for the king to

make offerings to God.

produces; that increase is not localized. The path of increase

always goes along with the time.

THE IMAGE: What one is given comes from outside.

In terms of Buddhism, this means bringing the realm of enlightenment down

Here flexibility is balanced correctly, thus receiving benefit from the correct

to benefit those in other states of mind; therefore the people "rejoice bound-

balance of positive strength of the fifth yang. One is blessed psychologically,

lessly." Enlightenment, which is basically transcendental, is manifested on a

not materially, so one can cause everyone to believe in one and bring pre-

lower plane, so it "descends from above to below," and "that path is great

cious gifts. As an administrator, it is good to be always correct and not let

and brilliant."

help from heaven or from other people change one's attitude. As a ruler, it is

Celestial action and the action of sages are called "balance and rectitude."

good to make offerings to God, renewing oneself and renewing the people,

Pure conduct initiates innocent and compassionate action; this is called "the

so that the mandate of rulership is thereby refreshed. When the image says

path of harmony then being carried out." that what one is given comes from outside, this means that it is not antici-

Emanating illumination and manifesting wonders move people; explain-

pated, because there is no calculating selfishness.

ing the truth intelligently tames them.

Opening up complete understanding to reveal inherent qualities is called

the disbursal of heaven. Establishing rounded behavior to complete culti- ■ 3 yin: Enhancement through unfortunate events is blameless.

vated qualities is called the production of earth. Sincere and balanced in action, one presents impartial use of

Seeding, maturing, liberating, teaching in terms of the world, or to cure authority.

specific ills, or to develop individuals, or in terms of ultimate truth, is called

THE IMAGE: There has always been such a thing as

"going along with the time."

enhancement through unfortunate events.



THE IMAGE: Wind and thunder increase. Thus do developed This represents being unbalanced and awry, at the top of the lower echelon,

people take to good when they see it, and correct whatever and being subjected to the attack of the highest power. Being subjected to

faults they have. this attack is what benefits one. If one knows that unfortunate events truly

can benefit one, then one will be blameless.

The drumming of the wind represents the swiftness of taking to good; the Although one is not in a state of balance, if one is sincere one can act in a

stirring of thunder represents the courage to correct faults.

balanced way and thus can present impartial use of authority. Impartiality is

characteristic of the highest power, and authority is used to get a message



■ through. Once the message goes through, the authority is returned to the

First yang: It is beneficial to undertake to do great work.

public domain and not used for personal gain. The only personal gain one

If it turns out very well, there is no blame.

receives is through being subjected to impartial criticism.

THE IMAGE: Only if it turns out well is there no blame, Ordinarily people always think that unfortunate events are not beneficial;

because it is not for those in low positions to be deeply it is sages who realize that there has always been such a thing as benefit from

concerned with affairs. unfortunate events. If one can believe that misfortune is beneficial, then it is

no longer unfortunate.

At the beginning of increase is when one receives benefit from those above

most richly. Because one receives this rich benefit while in a low position,

one can relax and do nothing; but as long as one is strong and upright, and ■ 4 yin: Balanced action openly expressed is followed

is also in charge of action, one will surely be able to do great work that will i mpartially. It is beneficial to use this as a basis to move the



turn out very auspiciously, one thus avoids blame. center of operations.

so



THE IMAGE: Open expression of impartial following is because of the beneficial aim.

166 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 43. Decision (Parting) 167



The fourth yin and the two lines above it all represent reduction of the

higher to augment the lower. The fifth and top lines are both yang, the

fourth alone has shifted to yin; this represents sacrificing oneself for the 43. Decision (Parting)

people, which is symbolized by moving the center of operations, and is the

heaven below, lake above

path of balanced action. i

Since the first line has already received one's help, and is strong and up- Decision is brought up in the royal court. A sincere state-

right, it has a great impartial attitude, with which it now is going to repay ment involves danger. Addressing one's own domain, it is

one with great work, so one can rely on this. Because the aim is to benefit not beneficial to go right to war, but it is beneficial to go

the people, the people will follow impartially. somewhere.



■ 5 yang: In worldly terms, this is when the people rejoice without bounds, and enjoy

There is sincerity to benefit the mind. Do not ask—it is

prosperity and happiness without effort, so action must be decisive.

very auspicious. There is sincerity granting one rewards.

In terms of Buddhism, this is when one has reduced oneself for the bene-

THE IMAGE: There is sincerity to benefit the mind—do not fit of others, is successful in teaching, and should decisively progress to cut

question it. Granting one rewards is because of great through residual confusion and realize the ultimate attainment.

Now there cannot be yang without yin, but in this hexagram yin rests

achievement of what is intended.

on top of yang. This is like undeveloped people being above developed

Here positive strength is balanced correctly and corresponds with the sec- people—it is imperative to cooperate to get rid of this situation, to "bring it

ond yin. This represents one who truly wishes to benefit those below. Bene- up in court," to trust one another to state the error. These are courses of

fiting them mentally, the benefit requires no expenditure, and all receive the action that involve danger.

blessing. What need is there to question that great good fortune? So one Here it is appropriate to examine oneself and cultivate virtue, thus "ad-

here can feel the good fortune of the constant uprightness of the second yin, dressing one's own domain." It is not appropriate to contend forcefully or

greatly achieving what is intended, and it repays one with fine rewards. "go right to war." Just exert the influence of virtue, and all will benefit.

In Buddhist terms, when we comprehend the reality of confusion, then



■ Top yang: confusion becomes knowledge; this is called "addressing one's own do-

None benefit one here; they may attack one. Do not

main." Opposing it to get rid of it is called "going to war."

persist in this attitude, for that would lead to misfortune.



" THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Decision is removal; strength

THE IMAGE: None benefit one here" expresses partiality; "they

removes weakness. Robust and joyous, there is harmony is

may attack one" refers to what comes from without.

spite of the decision to part. What is brought up in the royal

In the position of the top yang, basically one should reduce oneself to en- court is the weak riding on five of the strong. A sincere

hance the third yin, but since the third yin is not balanced and not correct, statement involves danger, but that peril is then illuminating.

therefore one does not grant benefit and instead attacks. The third yin, of Addressing one's own domain, it is not beneficial to go to war;

course, does receive benefit from the stimulus of this unfortunate event; but otherwise the preferred course will come to an impasse. It is

the top yang should not persist in this attitude. If one at the top persists in beneficial to go somewhere; the growth of strength then ends.

this attitude, then none of those below will benefit one, and indeed those

Robust and joyous, harmonious in spite of the decision to part, correct illu-

below may attack one. Therefore it warns that to persist in this attitude will

mination should use the influence of virtue and should not fight with force.

lead to misfortune.

If you know what is perilous, that will enlighten you. If you prefer force,

The top yang is not balanced, not correct; this is one who is not benevo-

you will come to an impasse.

lent yet is in a high position. Only thinking of benefiting oneself, one is un-



It is beneficial to have a place to go, which is to transform undeveloped

expectedly attacked; hoping for benefit, one does not get it—hence this "ex-

people by virtue. When undeveloped people are all developed, the growth

presses partiality." Because the attack is unexpected, it "comes from without."

of strength then ends.

168 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING 43. Decision (Parting) 169



■ The Image: Moisture rises to the sky, which then parts with not understand one's actions, though one may be irritated, nevertheless the

way to influence undeveloped people must be like this, so in the end there is

it. Thus do developed people distribute wealth to those below.

If they presumed on their virtue, they would be resented. no fault.



Wealth should be distributed; virtue should be accumulated. If wealth is not ■ 4 yang: With no flesh on the buttocks, one walks haltingly. distributed, then blessings dry up; if virtue is not accumulated, then the

Leading the sheep, regret disappears. The words heard are not

basis is lost. When wealth is distributed to those below, it is possible to edu- believed. cate people thereby; but if this virtue is presumed upon, it will lead to com-



placency, and people will resent it. THE IMAGE: One walks haltingly, being out of place. The words

heard are not believed, because of not hearing clearly.



■ First yang: Vigorous in the advancing feet, going but For the fourth yang, the lines below are "buttocks." The lines below are pure

not prevailing is faulty. hardness, without softness, like bones without flesh. Since there is no flesh

on the buttocks, one will walk haltingly and not make progress. If one has

THE IMAGE: To go without prevailing is faulty.

the sheep be in front and follows up behind, one is still leading the sheep,

When strength is not balanced, one should not go forward; if one still but regret can disappear. But because strength is not balanced properly, on

goes forward vigorously, this will only be self-defeating. Then how can one hearing these fine words one will certainly not believe. The "sheep" here is

prevail? the top yin, which is the director of the trigram lake, representing joy; the

fourth yang should lead this and not part from it, and also should not com-

pete with it for precedence.

■ 2 yang: When there is a cry of alert, even if there are attackers



in the night, there is no worry. ■ 5 yang: A hill of amaranth; parting with what is to be parted

THE IMAGE: There is no worry when there are attackers, with, balanced action is faultless.

because one has attained balance.

THE IMAGE: Balanced action is faultless, but balance is not yet

Here strength is in balance, and one knows enough to be wary and alert. obvious.

Once accumulated virtue is complete, one can be untroubled even when

The top yin is soft and weak, like the amaranth plant; but it is on top of five

there are attackers.

yangs, like amaranth on a hill. Everyone can walk over it; does this alone not

indicate the quality of submissiveness? Is this alone not "what is made by

■ 3 yang: Vigor in the face involves misfortune. Developed the whole body of the absolute containing the whole body of the absolute"?

people part decisively and travel alone. Encountering rain, if Here it is appropriate to part with what the other yangs part with, but still

they get wet there is irritation but no fault. preserve and nurture it; this is the path of balanced action, whereby it is

possible to be faultless. However, when parting, after all one does not avoid

THE IMAGE: Developed people part decisively and are faultless

distinguishing between developed and undeveloped people, though one still

in the end. does not forget what is universally the same in everyone—therefore "bal-

When excessively adamant and unbalanced, anger shows in the face; exces- ance is not yet obvious." In Return (number 24), sages carefully preserve the

sive strength inevitably breaks down, and leads to misfortune. In view of faint yang; in Decision/Parting, they carefully preserve the remaining yin—

neither yin nor yang can be wholly abandoned.

these facts, developed people have no reason not to take upon themselves

the decision to part, leaving the other four yangs above and below them,

going on alone to pursue the reasonable course of correspondence with the ■ Top yin: No call; in the end there is misfortune.

top yin. Then yin and yang influence each other by their qualities and har-

monize with each other. One in this position soon encounters rain and gets THE IMAGE: The misfortune of no call is that there

cannot be growth at the end.

wet; but even though the other yangs do not know one's intention and do

170 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 44. Meeting 171



The five lines below epitomize the exhortations and admonitions of sages to The firm is subtle perception of reality; the flexible is subtle cessation of

the strong who gather together. Here one who is weak is at the top and even confusion. Producing this perception from this cessation is called the flexible

though correct is unable to call forth caution for preparedness, so in the end encountering the firm.

The firm is knowledge; the flexible is meditation concentration. Awaken-

cannot grow.

ing knowledge by means of concentration is called the flexible encountering

the firm.

Cultivation basically adds nothing to inherent essence. Stopping the mind



44. should not be totally overwhelming, and concentration should not be exces- Meeting

sive. Therefore "it won't do to associate for long."

wind below, heaven above When heaven and earth meet, heaven gets the first line of' earth to form

In meeting, the woman is strong. Do not marry the woman. the trigram wind. Nothing stirs things as rapidly as wind. Make the wind

even, and all things are cleanly leveled—therefore "all things become

manifest."

In ordinary terms, after you have dismissed something from your mind,

The firmness of the second yang encounters the first yin below, and en-

when you do encounter it, it will be unexpected.

In Buddhist terms, those who decisively cut through residual confusion counters the balance and uprightness of the fifth yang above. In political

terms, this is an administrator who gets a leader that enables him to help the

and become the same as the buddhas on a higher plane must then make

people. In Buddhist terms, this is knowledge in accord with essence, able

skillful use of inherent evil to meet with unenlightened people on a lower

thereby to achieve well-being. Hence the text says, "the world works well."

plane.



there is no obstruction by confusion, while Meeting represents the path of In terms of the ultimate, Decision (hexagram 43) represents the path where THE IMAGE: Wind under heaven—meeting. Thus do rulers announce their directives to the four quarters. liberation.

In terms of beginner's mind, Decision represents intellectual knowledge When what is "stripped away" from the top (in hexagram 23) goes back to

and Meeting represents noumenon. Because the yin "without call" (at the the bottom, this is called Return (hexagram 24): this represents inherent vir-

Meeting) and finds a

top of Decision) suddenly descends to the bottom (of tue, perceptive insight; it cannot be used right away, so it is like thunder

place to rest, its strength gradually grows; therefore the second yang should being in the earth, and "the ruler does not inspect the regions." When what

embrace and encompass it, and not let a stranger take it. is "parted" from the top (hexagram 43) goes back to the bottom, this is

In buddhas, this is using inherent evil as a means of entry into truth. In called Meeting (hexagram 44): this represents cultivated virtue, concentra-

unenlightened people, who do not understand, this is cultivated evil. The tion to stop confusion; this can be used effectively, so it is like "wind under

second yang, practicing the path of the bodhisattva, can appear to assimilate heaven" and "rulers announcing their directives."

to cultivated evil and not let others to do evil. By return, you see the heart of heaven and earth; by meeting, you see the

Also, the path of liberation, once attained, is attained forever; hence "the

greatness of the significance of the time. "Return" is creative recognition of a

woman is strong." There is no attachment; hence "do not marry the woman." great beginning; "meeting" is receptive action forming beings. "Return" is

This also applies to noumenon. skill through knowledge; "meeting" is power through enlightenment.



Meeting is encounter; the flexible

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: ■ First yin: encounters the firm. "Do not marry the woman" means that it Arrested by a metal brake, it is good to be correct. If

will not do to associate for long. When heaven and earth meet, you go anywhere, you will see misfortune, an emaciated pig

all things become manifest. When the firm meets balance and leaping in earnest.

uprightness, the whole world works well. The significance of

the time of meeting is great indeed. THE IMAGE: Being arrested by a metal brake means the reining

of the course of flexibility.

In Buddhist terms, the firm is inherent virtue and the flexible is cultivated

virtue. Using cultivation to manifest what is inherent is called the flexible But for essential nature, there is no way to produce cultivation; without cul-

tivation, it is impossible to reveal essential nature. Meditation without knowl-

encountering the firm.

I72 THE BUDDHIST I CH1NG 44. Meeting 1 73



edge is not meditation; knowledge without meditation is not knowledge. In When one is talking loftily about essence and flaunting uncontrolled intel-

Buddhism, these are complementary and must be linked to one another. lectualism, one does not know that this causes misfortune. Then, when one

Here, one yin arises at the bottom and is arrested by the metal brake of is about to die and sees hellish visions, one will regret one's insufficiency, just

the second yang; this is the correct course, which leads to good fortune. If like one who only finds out there is no fish in the bag after having left the

it is not arrested, then it will go somewhere, and if it goes it will run into river.

misfortune, like an emaciated pig that will be able to leap as long as it has



not been tamed already. The course of flexibility should be linked with ■ 5 yang: Wrapping a melon in river willows, containing

the quality of firmness; then they form a partnership and can accomplish

brilliance, there is a descent from heaven.

something.

THE IMAGE: The fifth yang contains brilliance, being balanced



■ correctly. There is a descent from heaven, aspiration not 2 yang: There is a fish in the bag. There is no blame.

disregarding destiny.

It is not beneficial to visitors.



Willow branches are supple and long; use these to wrap a melon, and the

THE IMAGE: When there is a fish in the bag, duty does not

branches and vine intertwine inextricably. This represents the meeting of the

extend to visitors.

second yang and the first yin. The fifth yang is the director of Meeting and

When cultivation reveals essential nature, essential nature then has cultiva- dwells on high, distant and unreachable. However, since here one's firm

tion; when concentration activates insight, insight then has concentration. strength is balanced correctly, one's inherent qualities form seeds after long

When essential nature and cultivation are perfected through interaction development and are about to burst forth in glory; so the text speaks of

with each other, and concentration and insight are equal, this is the blameless "containing brilliance."

path. But it can only be realized within oneself—it cannot be expressed to Because one's aspiration does not disregard destiny, one is not willing to

others. be reckless. So even though there is no meeting with the first yin, there

surely will be "a descent from heaven" to meet one. Discovery of what

is inherent is called "from heaven," and spontaneous accord is called "a

■ 3 yang: With no flesh on the buttocks, the walk is halting. descent."

There is danger, but no great fault.



THE IMAGE: The walk is halting because it is unconnected. ■ Top yang: Meeting horn is humiliating, but there is no blame.



The second yang is near the first yin, so "there is a fish in the bag." The third THE IMAGE: Meeting horn is the humiliation of coming

yang is far from the first yin, so there is "no flesh on the buttocks." If' there is to an impasse above. no flesh, one's walk will be halting. But even though it is dangerous, there is

no great fault, because the third yang is together with the first yin in the At the end of meeting, one does not meet with flexibility; this is called

body of "meeting horn." This is like those devoted to individual liberation, who are wind, which represents harmony; it is just that its progress is not yet

linked up with the course of flexibility. biased toward insight into absolute emptiness. Nevertheless, they do escape

the misfortune of having no fish in the bag, yet they do not avoid the hu-

miliation of stunted potential.

■ 4 yang: No fish in the bag; this causes misfortune.



THE IMAGE: The misfortune of having no fish is that

of alienating the people.



When strength is not balanced correctly, one clings to essential nature and

neglects cultivation, relies on intellect and neglects concentration. This is

like a top executive dwelling in a high position and alienating the people.



THE BUDDHIST I CUING 45. Gathering 175

174

assemble as long as they are armed and able to defend themselves." In Bud-

dhist terms, this refers to the inner prohibitions of the disciplinary code. In



45. habits. Gathering terms of contemplating mind, this refers to esoteric spells for overcoming



earth below, lake above



Gathering is successful. The king goes to his shrine. It is ■ First yin: There is trust, but it does not last to the end. There is

beneficial to see a great person; this leads to success. It is disorder and mobbing. If you cry, laughter is mixed in. Do not

beneficial to be correct. It is good to make a great sacrifice. worry; it is blameless to go.

It is beneficial to go somewhere.

THE IMAGE: "Disorder and mobbing" means confusion of

Meeting and thus gathering is normal in both mundane and transmundane mind.

matters. How can gathering not lead to success? Because of the gathering of

the feelings of the unseen and the apparent, there is a shrine to go to; be- When it is time to gather, everyone wants to gather. The two yangs in the

cause of the gathering of the feelings of the higher and the lower, a great hexagram represent the leaders of the gathering, and the four yins represent

person can be seen. Making a great sacrifice to go to the shrine, it is bene- those who gather around them. The first yin and fourth yang are proper cor-

ficial to go somewhere to see a great person. These are all matters of course respondents; they are basically to be trusted, but since they are not balanced

when obeying the duties of the time; this is what is meant by being correct. correctly, they cannot take their trust to its proper conclusion, so there is

"disorder and mobbing." Because there is disorder, you may cry; because

there is mobbing, laughter is mixed in. But since they are proper correspon-

Gathering is assembly. Obeying dents, why doubt or worry? It is better for the first yin to go follow the

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT:

joyfully, firmness balanced and responsive, hence there is fourth yang; this is blameless. It is because of confusion of mind that crying

gathering. The king goes to his shrine, practicing piety and laughter are mixed; this means that the principle of correspondence it-

successfully. It is beneficial to see a great person, leading self has never been confused.

to success; this is gathering correctly. It is good to make a



sacrifice, beneficial to go somewhere; this is obeying the ■ 2 yin: mandate of heaven. Observe what is gathered, and the Drawing out is good and blameless. If trusted

conditions of heaven, earth, and myriad beings can be seen. it is beneficial to perform a ceremony.



Various expressions are used in the I Ching to express the successful carrying THE IMAGE: Drawing out is good and blameless, as balance

through of pious behavior; in this case it says, "making a great sacrifice." has not changed.

Various expressions are also used to express going to see great people; in this

case it says, it is beneficial to go somewhere." There is nothing personal Here flexible docility is balanced and correct, corresponding with the leader-

about it. When it is appropriate to be abstemious, then be abstemious; when ship of positive strength in correct balance represented by the fifth yang

it is appropriate to be lavish, then be lavish. When it is appropriate to go, above; basically there is nothing suspicious. But the first yin and the third

then go; when it is appropriate to come back, then come. All of these are yin both go to gather around the fourth yang, and one is in between these

ways of obeying the mandate of heaven and observing the conditions of t wo yins; if one does not draw oneself out, how can one get the confidence

people and things. of the fifth yang? If one draws oneself out and wins trust, then it is not nec-

essary to make a great sacrifice; just to perform a ceremony will still be



THE I MAGE: Moisture rises onto the earth—gathering Thus do respondent is like performing a ceremony; it requires very little. But this is . beneficial. Leaving the two yins behind and going alone to follow one's cor-

leaders prepare weapons to guard against the unexpected. only because the second yin has the virtue of balance. Such a one does not

change his discipline to follow others who are weak, as represented by the

One commentator says, "Moisture can gather into a body of water on the two surrounding yins. surface of the earth if there are retaining walls; people can live in peace and 176 46. Rising THE BUDDHIST I CHING 177



■ THE IMAGE: Sighing and weeping is because of not being 3 yin: Gathering, lamenting; there is nothing gained.

comfortable at the top.

To go involves no blame, but there is a little shame.



THE IMAGE: To go involves no blame—the one above is Here one is weak but in a high position, and is uncomfortable and uneasy;

so one sighs and weeps, cleaving to the fifth yang, so as to be without blame.

willing.



Above there is no correspondent, no partner. One wants to gather, but there

is no one to go along with; therefore one laments and gains nothing. How-

ever, when it is time to gather, if one goes to follow the fourth yang, one can

still escape blame. But since it is not a proper correspondent, one is shamed 46. Rising

a little, though the fourth agrees to accept this.

wind below, earth above



■ no blame. Rising is very successful. It calls for seeing a great person, 4 yang: If there is great good fortune, then there is so there will be no grief. An expedition south brings good

THE I MAGE: There is no blame only if there is great good fortune.

fortune, because one is out of place.

When energy amasses, it rises upward, like a tree growing upward from the

When it is time to gather, the first yin responds to this one, the third yin earth; great success is sure. But since docile receptivity, as symbolized by the

pledges allegiance to this one; is this not close to regarding an administrator wind and earth trigrams, is not of itself fruitful in action, there is the exhor-

as a ruler? This is why one in this position can only be blameless if there is tation to "see a great person, so there will be no grief." The south is associ-

great good fortune. This is like the case of ancient wise men who never be- ated with fire, symbol of illumination; an expedition south brings good for-

came leaders but spent their whole lives fulfilling the duties of administrators. tune insofar as people turn toward illumination to carry out their aim.



■ 5 yang: Gathering around the position, there is no blame. THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Flexibility rises in accord with the If those who are not loyal remain ever-faithful to their original ti me. When there is docile receptivity, strength in balance

commitment, regret vanishes.

responds; hence there is great success. It is useful to see a

great person, so there will be no grief, but rather celebration.

THE IMAGE: When there is gathering around the position, one's

aspiration is not yet glorious. An expedition south brings good fortune, in the sense that the

aim is carried out.

Here positive strength is balanced and correct; this is one in the position of

By flexibility one rises in accord with the time. This rising depends on recep-

the leader, around whom others gather. But it is only the second yin that

tivity, and is an achievement of receptivity. When strength in balance re-

really responds and the top yin that really cleaves to one here. The first and

sponds to docile receptivity, that is the aim of docility and receptivity.

third have already gathered around the fourth yang, so one can achieve no

more than being without blame. If one can forget one's position and delegate

responsibility to the fourth yang, allowing those two yins not to be loyal to THE IMAGE: Trees grow in the earth—rising. By following

oneself, and if those who originally gathered around the fourth are always virtue, developed people accumulate the small into lofty

greatness.

faithful, then since the fourth yang is one's own minister, those two yins are

one's own subjects; therefore regret vanishes. Then again, if one just relies The body of the Tao is fundamentally not great or small, but when devel-

on one's position and expects others to gather around, one's aspiration is not oped people accumulate virtue, they do so by following the Tao receptively,

yet glorious. always proceeding from smallness to greatness, just as a huge tree starts out

as a small sprout. The thing to remember is that one should neither damage

the sprout nor try to force it to grow.

r Top yin: Sighing and weeping, there is no blame.

47. Exhaustion 179

l78 THE BUDDHIST 1 CITING

When there are enlightened people at court, the aim of a wise ruler is at-

■ First yin: Truthful rising is very auspicious. tained. The second yang, representing the enlightened person, is strong and

balanced, so the fifth yin, representing the wise ruler, responds to this. This

THE IMAGE: Truthful rising is very auspicious in that

illustrates presenting a path on which to rise, as a wise ruler sets up steps to

there is accord with a higher aim.

raise enlightened people to high positions. The only worry is that a less en-

Obediently according with a higher positive aim, truthfulness can ascend in lightened ruler will be overbearing toward a more enlightened person, like

a way that is very auspicious. yin sitting on top of yang, and will not be able to perceive the sincerity of the

latter; hence the special admonition to be correct, intending that the ruler

have the correct attitude toward the enlightened person.

■ 2 yang: If there is sincerity, it is beneficial to perform

a ceremony. There is no blame.

■ Top yin: Rising into the unknown, it is beneficial to be

THE IMAGE: The sincerity of the second yang is joyful.

unceasingly correct.



The second yang seeking sincerity in the fifth yin of the hexagram Rising is

THE IMAGE: Rising into the unknown on high dissolves

not as good as the second yin's sincerity toward the fifth yang in the hexa-

poverty.

yang is below yin in the relationship of the

gram Gathering, because in Rising

second and the fifth, meaning that they are not correct in their respective When one rises into the unknown, one can stop; but if one is unceasingly

positions. However, the second yin in Gathering has neighbors of the same correct, then one should rise yet further into the unknown. This is what is

character but different aims, so though its balance is not changed, it must called spiritual rank. If they cultivate spiritual rank, people of low social

withdraw itself for things to turn out well. Now the second yang of Rising has status are not really poor and lowly—their poverty can disappear.

neighbors of different character but a united aim, so it not only is blameless,

but even joyful.



■ 3 yang: Rising in an empty domain.

47. Exhaustion

THE IMAGE: Rising in an empty domain, there is no hesitation.

water below, lake above

When firm strength rises from a basis of flexible receptivity, what hesitation

Exhausted but coming through successfully, upright great

or obstacle could there be?

people are fortunate and impeccable. Mere words are not

believed.

■ 4 yin: The king makes offerings on the mountain.

This is auspicious and blameless.

If you rise without stopping, you will inevitably get exhausted; this is part of

THE IMAGE: The king making offerings on the mountain the normal cycle of filling and emptying, waxing and waning. When the ex-

hausted mind balances its thoughts, this is actually the way to come through

performs services accordingly.

successfully. However, if this is not sustained in the right way and not dealt

The rising of people is like making offerings to heaven, earth, mountains, with in the manner of a great person, how could it be possible to be fortu-

rivers, ghosts, and spirits; the services are not the same, but the basis of ac- nate and impeccable? If one does not personally practice real virtue and

cord is one. This is like adapting to the local situation wherever one goes; only has empty talk, this will surely not be enough to win confidence.

the situations are different, but the principle of adaptation is the same.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In exhaustion, strength is covered

■ 5 yin: Correctness is good in raising one up the steps. over. Only developed people can be joyful even in danger and

come through successfully in spite of exhaustion. Upright

THE IMAGE: Correctness is good in raising one up the steps, great people are fortunate, because their strength is in balance.

in that the aim is fully attained.

180 47. Exhaustion 181 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



Mere words are not believed, because if you value talk you will This represents those who can nurture themselves with strength and bal-

ance when exhausted; so it is called being exhausted, but with food and

come to an impasse.

drink. The fifth yang, with which the second corresponds, represents the

In this hexagram, the strength in the water trigram is below, covered over by leader with positive strength balanced correctly, who will surely reward one

the weakness in the lake trigram; since the strength is covered over, the with a regal robe, enabling one to cooperate in solving the impasse of the

water leaks out and the lake dries up—this is the image of exhaustion. ti me. One should just silently respond with sincerity, like making a cere-

To be joyful even in danger, to adapt to difficulty and carry through in monial offering. If one proceeds abruptly, there will be misfortune; yet the

difficulty, to avoid society without anguish, remaining happy—who but de- aim is to rescue the age, so there is no blame. Celebration within is the for-

veloped people can do this? tune of upright great people.

The second yang and fifth yang both represent strength in balance; this is



the uprightness of great people, the way to good fortune. If you do not ■ 3 yin: Exhausted on a rock, resting on thorns, going into a maintain this uprightness and merely value talk, you will only come to an

house but not seeing the wife—this is inauspicious.

i mpasse.

THE IMAGE: Resting on thorns is riding on the unyielding.

THE IMAGE: The lake has no water—exhausted. Developed Going into a house but not seeing the wife is not a good sign.

people accomplish their will by living out their destiny.

This represents negativity, weakness, imbalance, deviation. It is between two

In this hexagram, water is below the lake, which has no water; it is dried up, yangs: the fourth yang is like a rock, the second like thorns. The top yin does

exhausted—this is its established fate. Developed people only live out their not correspond; this is like going into a house but not seeing the wife. Be-

destiny; they do not willingly try to avoid following and accepting it. Being cause one lacks auspicious virtue, one brings misfortune on oneself.

strong and balanced, they are able to be joyful even in danger; this is the will

that is up to oneself. Developed people intend to accomplish their will and ■ 4 yang: Coming slowly, exhausted in a gold car, there is shame,

do not vacillate just because they run into problems. but there is a conclusion.



THE IMAGE: "Coming slowly" is because the mind is on

■ Sitting exhausted on a tree stump, gone into a dark First yin: something lower. Though one is out of place, there is a

ravine, not to be seen for three years. partner.



THE IMAGE: Gone into a dark ravine, it is obscure and unclear. To deal with exhaustion and come through successfully is something that no

one can do without strength and balance. The fourth yang represents one

The six lines of the hexagram all represent dealing with exhaustion; only

who, when exhausted, still cannot forget his feelings about the first yin, and

strong, balanced great people can avoid losing the way to come through suc-

so comes along slowly. Since his mind is on the first yin, not only does he

cessfully. The first yin is at the bottom; hence the image of sitting. It corre-

not share the virtues of the second yang, he instead gets exhausted in the

sponds with the "tree stump" of the fourth yang above, which cannot give it

"gold car" of the second yang and is shamed. However, the second yang is

protection in a state of exhaustion. Furthermore, the first yin is at the begin-

strong and balanced, and will surely be able to cooperate in solving the im-

ning of danger, which is like having gone into a dark ravine, unable to ap- passe of the time, not abandoning him just because he is out of place; there-

pear for "three years." fore there can be a conclusion.



■ 2 yang: gradually there is joy. It is beneficial to make ceremonial Exhausted, but with food and drink. When the regal ■ 5 yang: Nose and feet cut off, exhausted in a regal robe, robe comes, it is beneficial to make a ceremonial offering. An

offerings.

expedition leads to misfortune, but there is no blame.



THE IMAGE: " Nose and feet cut off" means that the aim is not

THE IMAGE: Exhausted, but with food and drink, there is

celebration within. yet attained. Gradually there is joy because of taking a



182 48. The Well 183 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



balanced course. It is beneficial to make ceremonial offerings A village can be changed, but a well cannot be changed. When change is

because one receives blessings. possible, there is loss and there is gain; if change is not possible, how can

there be any loss or gain?

The fifth yang represents positive strength that is balanced and correct, in Those who have drunk water go; those who are yet to drink come. People

the honored position, looking upon the whole world as one being. The top come and go, but the well does not come and go.

yin is "exhausted in difficulty"—this is like cutting off one's nose; the bot- When you draw water up from the well, then you have achieved your pur-

tom yin is "exhausted on a tree stump"—this is like cutting off one's feet. pose; if you overturn the bucket before drawing it up from the well, this is

One then relies on the second yang for cooperation in solving the impasse of unlucky. This is gain and loss for the person; it is not the gain or loss of

the time; this is like a regal robe, but the second yang is at this moment "ex- the well.

hausted in the midst of food and drink," so this fifth yang is "exhausted in a If you know how a well has no gain or loss, then you will know how in-

regal robe." Nevertheless, the second yang is balanced and straightforward, herent virtues can he different yet always identical. If you know how people

and will surely respond gradually, so that there is joy; one should react to have gain and loss, then you will know how cultivated virtues can be identi-

this with utmost sincerity, as in making a ceremonial offering, in order to cal yet always different.

receive blessings.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: The well nourishes inexhaustibly.

■ Top yin: Exhausted in difficulty, in distress, thinking there will Changing the village without changing the well is because of

be regret if one acts, one does regret. Going forth leads to strength and balance. Before the water is drawn up from the

good fortune. well, the purpose is not yet achieved. Overturning the bucket

is the cause of bad luck.

THE I MAGE: Exhausted in difficulty, one has not hit the mark.

There is regret because of regretting action; good fortune is There is water in the earth, so if you dig into the earth, you will find water.

to go. This is symbolic of the potential for enlightenment being inherent in all ele-

ments of experience; so if you examine the elements of experience, you will

At the extreme of exhaustion, one should go on actively. If one is negative,

realize the potential for enlightenment. But it is important to use the power

weak, and feeble in ability, one doubts whether one's ideas are right; this is of extremely calm observation to penetrate deeply and bring it out in the

like being all tangled up and ill at ease. Fearing that if one acts one will re-

open. Once this hidden essence is revealed, it nourishes oneself and nour-

gret it, one always shrinks back, regrettably. Therefore sages go directly forth

ishes others inexhaustibly.

to good fortune, resolving this.

In Exhaustion, the "fortune of the upright great person" is due to strength

and balance; here, "changing the village without changing the well" is also

said to be due to strength and balance. Exhaustion seems to point solely to

cultivated qualities, but really it makes it clear that the completion of cultiva-

48. tion lies in essential nature. The present hexagram seems to point solely to The Well

inherent qualities, but really it calls for people to develop cultivation with

wind below, water above the whole essential nature. Therefore it explains that it is unlucky to upset

the bucket before anything is achieved, laying great emphasis on cultivated

Changing the village, not changing the well, there is no

qualities.

loss, no gain. People come and go, but the well remains a

well. Lowering the bucket to the water, if you overturn the

bucket before drawing it up from the well, this is unlucky. THE IMAGE: Water above wood—a well. Leaders comfort the

people and encourage reciprocity.

A well is something that stays in its place in spite of movement. If you know

how a well stays in place in spite of movement, you will know how to get Carrying water to give to others can only reach a few; digging a well and

through the impasse of exhaustion; therefore The Well is explained after letting them draw from it will benefit many. "Carrying water" is contrived

Exhaustion. good, "digging a well" is uncontrived good. The way leaders comfort the

184 THE BUDDHIST 1 CITING 49. Change 185

people is to encourage them to take care of each other; thereby they are ■ 4 yin: When the well is tiled, there is no fault.

nourished inexhaustibly.

THE IMAGE: When the well is tiled, there is no fault—

this means fixing the well.

■ First yin: Mud in the well is not drunk. There are no animals at

an abandoned well. A well is tiled to keep impurities out of it, in order to keep the spring clean;

therefore it is called "fixing the well." This is conformative buddhahood,

THE IMAGE: Mud in the well is not drunk; it is below. There going from wisdom through thought into wisdom through practice, ward-

are no animals at an abandoned well, because its time is gone. ing off the impurities of dualistic extremism and keeping the spring of the

middle way pure.

Of the six lines of The Well, the three yin lines are the well, the three yang

lines are the spring. The first line is at the very bottom, so it is likened to

mud; not only do people not drink it, but even animals pay no attention. ■ 5 yang: The cold spring in the well is drunk from.

This is buddhahood as a mere ideal.

THE IMAGE: The drinking of the cold spring is balance and

correctness.

■ 2 yang: The depths of the well water a minnow. The jar is

broken and leaks. Positive strength balanced and correct is the utter purity and coolness of the

spring. Its merit extends to others, so they can "drink" it. This is partially

THE IMAGE: The depths of the well water a minnow; realized buddhahood; the water of the essence of the middle way benefits

it has no partner. oneself and benefits others.



This is the middle of the bottom trigram, so it is called the depths of the well;

there is a spring there which can water a minnow, but it has no correspond- ■ Top yin: Do not cover the well enclosure. There is nurturance,

ing partner above, so this is like the jar being broken and leaking, so that it which is very fortunate.

cannot be used to draw water. A minnow is the smallest of fish; this indi-

cates the first yin. This second yang is intellectual buddhahood, where one THE IMAGE: Great fortune at the top is great fulfillment.

has been influenced somewhat by learning but has not yet become a vessel

Yin at the top is like the well enclosure; if this is kept open and not covered,

of truth.

then everyone can draw from the well, and it will nourish them inexhaust-

ibly. This is ultimate realization of buddhahood, in which worthy qualities

■ 3 yang: The well is cleared, but not drunk from; this is are completely fulfilled, always bringing benefits to people throughout the the

concern of one's heart. It is worth drawing from. When the entire future.

king is enlightened, all receive the blessings.



THE IMAGE: When the well is cleared but not drunk from,



travelers are concerned; they seek enlightenment in the king, 49. Change to receive blessings.

fire below, lake above

Here positivity is in a positive position; the spring is pure. But it is still in the

lower trigram, and not drunk by people—this is something to be concerned Change is believed in on the day it is completed.

about. The top yin corresponds, so it can be used to draw from the well. It is very successful, beneficial if correct.

Since the king is enlightened and employs wise people, the blessings of the Regret vanishes.

wise are not received alone. This is buddhahood in contemplative practice;

because it subdues the basic afflictions of the mind, the well is cleared, but When the village is changed but not the well, this refers to the place. When

because it does not yet realize essence, it is not drunk from. Here one should the well is used up, there are no animals there and it is muddy; it has to be

seek the aid of the buddhas; then one can help oneself and help others. changed.

186 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 49. Change 187



The first priority of learners is to change their character. This is like fire ■ First yang: Use yellow ox hide for wrapping.

refining gold: during the process of refinement, the gold finds it painful;

only after the refinement is done and the gold is made into a vessel does it THE IMAGE: Using yellow ox hide means that it will not do to

believe in the merit of the fire. use contrivance.

This path of change is the path of creativity and receptivity; it is very suc-

cessful for those who do it correctly. Before believing in it, there is regret; Fire is that which changes; Lake is that which is changed. The first yang is on

once it proves trustworthy, regret vanishes. the bottom and has no corresponding partner above; this represents one

who should not use contrivance. Just use the hide of a yellow ox to wrap

yourself, in the sense of making yourself firm and secure.

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: In change, water and fire cancel



each other. Two women live together, but their aims are not ■ 2 yin: On the day of completion, the change has taken place. complementary; this is called change. The day it is finished,

then it is believed in. When change is believed in, rejoiced in An expedition leads to good fortune, without blame.

because it is civilized, very successful because it is correct, as

THE IMAGE: Change having taken place on the day of

the change is appropriate, regret vanishes. As heaven and

completion, there is felicity in going.

earth change, the four seasons take place. When ancient

leaders changed the social order, they obeyed nature and Here flexibility is balanced and correct; this is the master of fire, which rep-

responded to humanity. The time of change is great indeed. resents illumination, one who attains the complete ability to change things.

Change will be believed in on the day of completion, and above there is a

"When change is believed in" means that before change, people do not be-

correspondence with the fifth yang, which represents great people; so to go

lieve in it. When the change is appropriate, this makes people believe in it,

on will lead to a felicitous partnership.

and their regret vanishes; this makes it clear that if the change is not ap-

propriate, regret does not disappear. Change must come about the way na-

ture changes the seasons or the way ancient sages changed the social order ■ 3 yang: An expedition leads to misfortune, dangerous even if

for the better; only then can it win people's confidence. So change is not an correct. Change, then speak; on the third presentation, there

easy matter. will be trust.



THE IMAGE: Change, then speak. Make three presentations.

THE IMAGE: Fire in a lake—changing. Leaders make calendars

Where are you going?

to define the seasons.

Here one is too adamant and unbalanced; but one is in correspondence with

There is no actual reality in time; it is artificially defined by distinguishing

the top yin, which is flexible but upright, representing a leader that is like a

positions based on matter and mind. Mind is formless and is represented

spotted leopard and cannot be changed forcibly. So to "go on an expedition"

through the medium of matter. Matter has collective forms and individual

would surely lead to misfortune; even if one is right, it is still dangerous.

forms.

One can only change oneself so as to go along with the leader; when one

Collective forms of matter above us are the sun, moon, and constellations

has spoken up three times, one may win confidence.

of stars. As the sun, moon, and stars course through the sky, based on the

degrees of their passage we define the seasons of spring, summer, fall, and

winter. 4 ■ yang: Regret vanishes; there is trust. Changing one's fate,

In spring, it is spring for everyone; in winter, it is winter for everyone. So there is good fortune.

we know that time is just a manifestation of mind; it is nowhere, yet there is

THE IMAGE: The good fortune of changing one's fate is belief in

nowhere that it is not. This is like fire, which essentially has no self; it is even

the aim.

inherent in bodies of water; evidence of this is the way fiery light always rises

from the ocean.

The trigram lake is associated with metal, which must be refined before it

can be made into a vessel. But the fourth yang has no correspondent below,

188 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 50. The Cauldron 189



which means that there is not one who will develop you; so obviously there

is regret. However, being strong but not excessive, and also being close to the



top of fire, which represents illumination, your aim can be believed in, so 50. The Cauldron regret vanishes and there is trust. You can thereby change your fate and

progress daily toward the realm where you can benefit yourself and others wind below, fire above



as well. The cauldron is very auspiciously developmental.



■ 5 yang: To change things, nothing compares to the cauldron; this is the vessel used Great people change like tigers. There is certainty

without augury. to refine the wise, forge sages, cook Buddhas, and purify adepts. How could

it not be very auspicious and developmental?

THE I MAGE: When great people change like tigers, their stripes



are clear. THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: The cauldron is an image, using

Great people with positive strength balanced and correct, who also have the wood, wind, and fire to cook to perfection. Sages cook

assistance of those who are flexible, balanced, and correct, as represented by offerings to present to God, which is the great development

the corresponding second yin, are therefore like tigers miraculously trans- whereby sages are nurtured. Obedient and brilliantly clear

forming, their stripes clearly evident. They can win people's trust without of eye and ear, flexibly progressing upward, balanced and

any need for auguries. responsive to strength, therefore it is greatly developmental.



The first yin is the legs; the second, third, and fourth yangs are the belly; the

■ Top yin: Developed people transform like leopards; fifth yin is the knobs; and the top yang is the handle. Is this not the image of

undeveloped people change their faces. To go on an expedition a cauldron? Using wood, wind, and fire to cook to perfection; is this not the

leads to misfortune. To remain upright leads to good fortune. function of a cauldron?

Do not say the way of the cauldron is small; what sages use to cook offer-

THE IMAGE: Developed people transform like leopards—their ings to God is just this cauldron. This is to say that the great development

spots are dense. Undeveloped people change their faces—they used to nurture the sages of the world is just this cauldron. Why seek the

follow the leader docilely. principle outside the phenomenon?

Speaking in terms of the qualities of the hexagram, inside is the trigram

Leopards are born with spots, but they only show them at specific times, as wind, which stands for obedience; outside is the trigram fire, which stands

if they were transformed. The third yang represents undeveloped people for brilliant clarity of eye and ear. The fifth yin is the master of fire, progress-

who are adamant and impulsive; when they see the transformation of their

ing upward, gaining the state of balance, and responding to the strength of

leaders, they too change and speak up repeatedly in such a way as to follow

the second yang. Is this not the path whereby sages, wise people, Buddhas,

along. However, they only change their faces, not their hearts; so leaders

and adepts refine themselves, forge themselves, cook themselves, and purify

should not expect too much of them. If leaders want the people's hearts to

themselves? That great development is good indeed.

change, and go after them aggressively, they will not avoid misfortune; they

will only be fortunate if they themselves remain upright so as to influence

the people silently. ■ The Image: Fire over wood—the cauldron. Leaders stabilize

their mandate by correcting their position.



The cauldron is the treasure of the state, that in which the position of

the leader resides. When the right way is found by correcting the position,

then the mandate can be stabilized; if one's qualities are not in conformity

with one's position, then one's mandate departs, and the cauldron goes along

with it.

To explain this in terms of the image, virtuous qualities are like wood, the

190 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 50. The Cauldron 191



mandate is like fire. As long as there is wood, there is fire; when the wood is partner above; this is like the knobs of the cauldron being removed, so that it

exhausted, the fire dies out. If one makes one's position correct by having cannot be moved. Luckily, there are the "yellow knobs" of the flexible bal-

virtuous qualities, then one's mandate will be stabilized. When virtue is lost, ance of the fifth yin, coupled with the "jade handle" of the strength without

the mandate is lost. Therefore it is said, "This mandate is not permanent." excess of the top yang, which can be used to lift the second and third. This is

like yin and yang combining so as to produce rain; thereby regret is removed



■ First yin: When the cauldron overturns on and all turns out well. its base, it is

beneficial to take out what is If one takes the Tao to heart but does not think about putting it to effec-

wrong. When one has a

tive use, it therefore loses its meaning. This is like the saying that there is no

concubine, because of her child there is no blame.

meaning, duty, or justice if it is not put to work. This is to inspire us to prac-

THE IMAGE: When the cauldron overturns on its base, that is tice the Tao in a way that is effective for the time.

not bad. It is beneficial to take out what is wrong, to go along

with what is valuable. ■ 4 yang: The cauldron breaks its legs, spilling your food;

your face drips. This is unfortunate.

The first line is the base of the cauldron; it overturns because it correponds



with the fourth line. When you overturn it along with the uncooked stuff in THE IMAGE: Now that you have spilled your food, what

it, then the unhealthy things that have accumulated there can be taken out. happened to your confidence?

Overturning the base is like taking a concubine; taking out what is wrong

is like having a child. The mother is valued because of the child; because of The fourth line is the top of the belly of the cauldron. Its content fill it, and it

the child it is known that having a concubine is not bad. Through taking out weighs so heavily on the corresponding first yin below that its legs break

what is wrong, it is known that "overturning the base" has merit. under the strain. Your face then drips with sweat and embarrassment. To be-

gin with, you did not know that your virtue was slight, your knowledge



■ 2 yang: The cauldron has content. My enemy is afflicted, position, your plans were great and your responsibility heavy. Now you can- s mall, and your power little. Since you wrongly depended on your noble

but luckily it cannot get to me.

not bear that responsibility—what happened to your self-confidence?



THE IMAGE: The cauldron having content is being careful about

where one goes. While my enemy is afflicted, after all there is ■ 5 yin: The cauldron has yellow knobs and a gold handle.

no resentment. It is beneficial to be correct.



The second line is the bottom of the belly of the cauldron; as yang is strong, THE IMAGE: The knobs of the cauldron are filled

this is construed as having content. The line corresponds with the fifth yin of through the center.

"yellow knobs and gold handle," and is able to preserve this.

Though the first line "overturns the base" and "is afflicted," after all the The fifth line is the knobs of the cauldron; it has the quality of centered bal-

harm does not reach one here. However, for the second position, this means ance, so the color is yellow, which is the color associated with the center. It

receives fulfillment through openness, so it has a golden handle; the golden

it is best to be careful where one goes.

handle refers to the top yang. The handle is fitted through the knobs; the

knobs are used to lift the cauldron. To nurture the wise people throughout

■ 3 yang: The knobs of the cauldron are removed, so its use is the land is the right path of great service of sages.

i mpeded. Pheasant fat is not eaten. When it rains, regret is But the fifth yin originally has no fulfillment of its own; it is fulfilled

removed and all is well in the end. through its correspondence with the centered balance of the strength of the

second yang below. Using this to nurture the world is what is called finding

THE IMAGE: When the knobs of the cauldron are removed,

people for the benefit of the world.

it loses its meaning.



The third line is the middle of the belly of the cauldron; the contents are ■ Top yang: The jade handle of the cauldron is very auspicious, rich, and there is pheasant fat to be eaten. But there is no corresponding beneficial to all.

THE BUDDHIST I CHING 51. Thunder 193

192

THE IMAGE: Repeated thunder reverberates. Developed people

THE IMAGE: The jade handle is above. Hard and soft join.

practice introspection with caution.

The top line is the handle of the cauldron. From the point of view of the fifth

yin, it is hard as metal, but since the virtue of its hardness is not excessive, it Developed people do not worry or fear. Why would they need repeated

is like the luster of jade. When metal is subjected to a fierce fire it melts, but peals of thunder before they practice introspection cautiously? Cautious in-

jade cannot be destroyed by fire. When you use this to lift the cauldron, it is trospection actually refers to their daily practice of being careful by them-

very auspicious, beneficial to all. selves of' what they might not notice. This daily effort can foster what is good

and diminish what is bad. Because they are accustomed to cautious intro-

spection in daily life, therefore even when they run into "repeated thunder,"

they no longer worry or fear.



51. Thunder

■ First yang: When thunder comes, there is alarm, afterward

thunder below, thunder above laughter. This is auspicious.



Thunder comes through. When thunder comes, there is

THE IMAGE: When thunder comes, there is alarm—fear brings

alarm, then laughter. Thunder startles for a hundred miles, fortune. There is laughter—afterward there is a model. but one does not lose spoon and wine.

All six lines illustrate the way to cautiously practice introspection, but there

In Buddhist terms, as soon as a single thought begins to stir, you examine it are distinctions of excellence and inferiority of quality, appropriateness or

in terms of four phases—before the arising of the thought, on the verge of otherwise of position; therefore good and had outlooks are distinguished.

arising, during the thought, and after the thought; this is called alarm. Then The first yang represents strength correctly oriented, and is the master of

you realize it has no essence and no origin; this is called laughter. thunder, which stands for stirring, movement, and action. The best people to

The random arising of various bedeviling phenomena, such as objectifica- take charge of things are those who are most developed; this is obviously

tions of afflictive habits, is called "thunder startling for a hundred miles." auspicious.

Not losing the techniques of concentration and insight is called "not losing

spoon and wine."

■ 2 yin: Thunder comes—dangerous. Remembering that you

have lost your treasure, you climb nine hills. But do not pursue

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Thunder comes through. When it; in seven days you will get it. thunder comes, there is alarm—fear brings fortune. Then there

is laughter—afterward there is an example. Startling for a THE IMAGE: The danger of thunder coming is mounting the

hundred miles, it startles those far away and terrifies those unyielding.

nearby. If you come out, you can thus preserve the ancestral

The second yin rides on the unyielding strength of the first yang, which rep-

shrine and the earth and grain shrines, and so be the master of

resents a fearsome companion who awes and refines you. Because of this

ceremonies.

you become profoundly concerned, and use this to slough off your habitual

When you are afraid, you can bring about good fortune; you cannot expect weaknesses, and remember how you have carelessly lost your treasure of

gratuitous fortune. As it is said, fortune is born of worry and trouble. When balanced and upright pure goodness. Then you climb right up onto the nine

you are not careless even as you laugh, then you do not lose your standards. hills of high illumination. Do not concern yourself any further with seeking

Only by virtue of a lifetime of this sort of development can you go forth for it, for in "seven days," when you return to your original state, those

alone in emergencies that "startle those afar and terrify those nearby," from qualities of balanced and upright pure goodness will be there as ever.

which other people all flee, and stand up to them with a steady mind.

Thus you can preserve the ancestral shrine and the earth and grain shrines,

and be master of ceremonies, meaning that you can protect the people and ■ 3 yin: The thunder is faint. Act vigorously, and there will be no

the land, and fulfill the role of leadership. This is "not losing spoon and wine." trouble.

194 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 52. Mountain 195



THE IMAGE: The thunder is faint—the position is not is shifty," fearful and uncertain. If you go on an expedition this way, there is

appropriate. no mastery at the core of the heart, and since the spirit is already in disarray,

obviously there will be misfortune.

The third line is far from the first. This means that the stirring effect that was

However, while the thunder does not reach you here, only reaching the

there at first has become faint and is no longer intense. In this state, you

vicinity, if you can practice cautious introspection because the thunder is in

should stir yourself into action and not relax the effort to practice cautious

the vicinity, you can still be blameless. However, the intelligent way to pre-

introspection just because you are far from your awesome companion; then

serve yourself is to prevent disaster before it occurs; if you flirt with it, this

there will be no trouble.

will surely be considered twisted, and there will be criticism.



■ 4 yang: Thunder gets bogged down.



THE IMAGE: Thunder getting bogged down is not illuminating. Mountain = = 52.

The fourth yin is also a master of thunder, but it is yang on top of yin, and is

also trapped in the midst of four yins, so even though it comes repeatedly, it mountain below, mountain above



has lost its awesome quality and has gone into the mud. How can it have the Stilling the back, one does not find the body.

illumination that was characterized by alarm and laughter? Walking in the garden, one does not see the person.

There is no fault.



■ 5 yin: Thunder goes and comes—dangerous. On reflection,

Although movement and stillness are opposites, they are also intercon-

there is no loss; there is something to do.

nected, and they also have no real identity; ultimately they are nondual. Not

THE IMAGE: moving is called stillness, not being still is called moving; this is said in refer- Thunder goes and comes—dangerous. This is

acting in peril. ence to their opposition. Because of movement there is stillness, because of

stillness there is movement; this is said in terms of their interconnectedness.

What stirs the second yin is only the first yang, so it only says "thunder Stilling movement is quiescence, stopping quiescence is movement; moving

comes—dangerous"; what stirs the fifth yin is the first yang and the fourth what is stilled is movement, shifting movement is stillness; this is said in

yang—once the first thunder has gone, the fourth thunder then comes. Be- terms of their lack of real identity. Stillness is itself movement, so while tran-

cause of this, the fifth yin is wary of danger, which causes activity to pro- quil one always senses; movement is itself stillness, so while sensing one is

gress daily toward high illumination; therefore it is called action in peril. always tranquil: this is said in terms of their nonduality. It is only possible to

As this yin is in the fifth place, it is not too weak and attains centered speak of stillness to those who know the nonduality of movement and

balance, so its virtue is very great, without any loss. There is only the work stillness.

of cautious practice of introspection. In the human body, the senses are in the front and are governed by inter-

nal organs. The internal organs are in the body cavities, which are joined by



■ the back. When confronted with colors, people's emotions are aroused; if

Top yin: Thunder is faint; the look is shifty. An expedition

those colors are behind them, people are not aware of them. Therefore

leads to misfortune. The thunder does not reach you, but is in

people ordinarily construe the back as stillness. So when the back is still,

the vicinity. There is no blame. Association involves criticism.

one remains in a state of tranquillity even though the senses are excited with

THE IMAGE: emotions and desires. When emotions stir, even if the back discerns nothing, The thunder is faint—balance has not been

attained. Though there is misfortune, there is no blame. Fear after all it goes along. Therefore, when the front follows the back, then

nearby is a warning. when the back is still the front also is accordingly still; when the back fol-

lows the front, when the front is active the back is also accordingly active.

The strength of the first yang certainly is unable to reach you here, and the Ultimately the front and back are fundamentally not two and cannot be

thunder of the fourth yang is "bogged down," so its sound is faint and has divided.

no more power. Also, the weakness of the yin here is extreme, so "the look This hexagram has the trigram mountain above and below; this stands for

196 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 52. Mountain 197



stopping and stilling: this is "stilling the back." How can stilling the back thoughts are "not out of place." While not out of place, they are always

allow one to be faultless? Because it means "not finding the body, walking in thinking, so this is not dead quietism; though they think, it is not out of

the garden, not seeing the person." This is faultless. place, so this is not chasing around in confusion. Always thinking, they can

The body is fundamentally not really substantial; only by binding it to- fulfill the function of their place, so all the works that make the world go

gether by emotional desires do we erroneously perceive that there is a body. around flow from this realm of realities. Not being out of place, they can

If we examine it calmly, we see that what is solid in it belongs to earth, what accord with the capacity of their position, so all capabilities that nurture be-

is moist in it belongs to water, what is warm in it belongs to fire, and what is ings return to this realm of realities.

motile in it belongs to air. The eyes, ears, nose, and tongue have different



functions; the four limbs, head, and feet have different names; there are ■ First yin: Stopping the feet, there is no blame. three hundred and sixty joints and eighty-four thousand pores—ultimately

It is beneficial to be always correct.

what is the body?

Since the body cannot be grasped, then as it goes through myriad changes, THE IMAGE: Stop the feet before losing correctness.

how can there be a graspable "person"? Therefore, walking through the gar-

den, one does not see the person. So stillness does not interfere with action; Stopping the feet means stopping at the outset, not allowing oneself to in-

action itself is stillness. Therefore there is no fault. dulge in impulses. Then one will certainly not lose correctness and will be

blameless. However, it is beneficial when always correct. Stop when it is

ti me to stop, go when it is time to go, and you will gain the good fortune of

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Mountain stands for stillness. When

careful stopping.

it is time to stop, then stop; when it is time to go, then go.

When action and repose are timely, then one's path is

illumined. The stillness of the mountain means stopping in the 2 yin: ■ Stopping the calves, they don't rise to follow.

right place. Above and below are opposed, and have nothing The mind is not happy.

to do with each other. Therefore one does not find the body;

walking in the garden, one does not see the person. There is THE IMAGE: Not rising to follow means not retreating to listen.

no fault.

The feet, calves, and thighs all go or stop following the mind. But the feet

Stopping action is repose; stopping stillness is action. When action and repose have no power and cannot act on their own; and when walking, the feet are

are timely, they are both subtle stillness; therefore one's path is illumined. basically themselves still. Now, the position of this second yin is that of the

Stillness does not mean the stillness of "facing a wall." The "right place" calves, and it is yin in a yin position. When stopping, they can forcibly stop

does not mean a specific location. on their own and not follow the mind's movement, so this "not rising to fol-

As phenomena fundamentally do not know each other and do not reach low." This is the path where timing is not missed but by movement or still-

each other, just as the upper and lower trigrams of this hexagram are op- ness. It is by not retreating humbly to listen to orders from the mind that one

posite and do not form a pair, therefore when one seeks the body, one ulti- causes the mind to be unhappy.

mately cannot grasp it, and though one "walks in the garden" there is no



definite "person" to be seen. Merging with the path of light, there is no fault. ■ 3 yang: Stopping at the waist breaks the spine.

Danger affects the heart.

THE IMAGE: The mountains are still. Thus the thoughts of



developed people are not out of place. THE IMAGE: Stopping at the waist, danger affects the heart.



Two mountains stand next to each other, each resting in its place. Therefore The third place is at the boundary, or the "waist." Here yang is in a yang

plants and trees grow on them, animals and birds live on them, lodes of pre- position; this is the master of stillness. This is where the waist is stiff and

cious stones develop in them. Each place is so because of the laws governing inflexible. Above and below originally connect, like a spine. Now, because of

the universe. "breaking the spine" they no longer interconnect, so the danger cannot but

It is not that developed people do not think about this; but they know that affect the heart.

nothing can be grasped outside the place of present manifestation, so their

N.



198 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING 53. Gradual Progress 199



■ 4 yin: Stopping the torso, there is no fault. Also, the gradual method of meditation is called a "woman"; arriving at

reality right in meditation on phenomena is called "marriage." Comprehen-

THE IMAGE: Stopping the torso stills the body. sive cultivation of meditation on phenomena with complete understanding

is called "chastity."

The fourth place is at the torso. The overall judgment speaks of "stopping the

back," but here it just speaks of "stopping the torso." If the torso is stopped,

so is the back. Countless faults and errors arise from the body; when flex- THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: When it proceeds gradually, a

ibility is correct and one can stop them in the body, what faults can there be? woman's marriage is auspicious. When the procedure leads to

the proper state, the process is successful. By correct progress



■ 5 yin: Stopping the jaws, there is order in speech, strength attains balance. When calm and flexible, action does it is possible to rectify the country. The proper state is when

and regret vanishes.

not reach an impasse.



THE IMAGE: Stopping the jaws is done with balance and Progress may be sudden or gradual. Here, gradual progress is being illus-

uprightness. trated, so it is said to be like a woman's marriage being auspicious when it

proceeds gradually. Achieving the right state, the process is successful. If the

The fifth place is in the heart; the voice of the heart is expressed through the

procedure does not lead to the right state, obviously it will not do to go

jaws. Here the recessive takes the place of the aggressive, and one is in bal-

through with it.

ance; so one is able to assess the balance of one's words before speaking

By correctness it is possible to rectify the country. Clearly, if progress is

them. Thus one does not speak at random and there is order in one's speech,

not right, it cannot make the country right.

so that one can avoid making mistakes through speech.

But how does this hexagram illustrate a procedure leading to the proper

state? By the fifth yang, where strength attains balance. How does it illus-

■ Top yang: Careful stopping is auspicious. trate the success of the process? By action being calm and flexible, hence not

coming to an impasse. Calm is the wellspring of action. Without calm, ac-

THE IMAGE: The good outcome of careful stopping is a rich tion comes to an impasse, like a gully that is temporarily filled by rain but

conclusion. dries up right away.



Being the master of stopping, and at the end of the hexagram, can be called

resting in the highest good; that culmination is useful for everything. Essen- THE IMAGE: There are trees on a mountain, gradually growing.

tial virtue is fundamentally rich, and cultivating virtue can accord with Developed people improve customs by living wisely and

essential nature and restore it. Therefore the commentary says there is a virtuously.

rich conclusion.

Trees on a mountain grow gradually, their growth unnoticed by those who

gaze on them. So it is also with developed people who live wisely and vir-

tuously. When there are huge trees on a mountain, the mountain increases

in height. When there are developed people living wisely and virtuously in

53. Gradual Progress an area, the local way of life improves.



mountain below, wind above

■ First yin: Geese gradually proceed to the shoreline.

Gradual progress in a woman's marriage is auspicious.

If humble people are diligent and speak up, there is no blame.

It is beneficial to be chaste.

THE IMAGE: The diligence of humble people is dutiful and

In Buddhist terms, essence is realized all of a sudden; then you use this real- blameless. ization to clear your mind and make it fluid. Phenomena are not cleared

away all at once; this is done through a gradual process, just as the proce- Geese fly south in the fall and north in the spring; they go at specific times

dure for a woman's marriage is a gradual one. and nest in an orderly fashion. In human terms, they are like humble

200 53. Gradual Progress THE BUDDHIST I CITING 201



people, who should work hard, be wary of danger, and speak up to seek The fourth yin is on top of the third yang, where it cannot really rest; this is

people who can help refine and develop them, just as geese on a shoreline like gradually proceeding into the trees, which is not a place where geese

call for mates. Then they will be blameless. can rest, since they have webbed feet and cannot grasp the branches. They

may, however, find a large, flat branch, where they would have no trouble.



■ The meaning intended here is cleaving to the fifth yang above. By following

2 yin: Geese gradually proceed onto a boulder; they eat and

docilely, it may be possible to be free from trouble.

drink happily. This is auspicious.



THE IMAGE: Eating and drinking happily, they don't just stuff ■ 5 yang: Geese proceed gradually onto a mountaintop.

themselves idly. The wife does not conceive for three years; after all, no one

could overcome her. This is auspicious.

The second yin is in correspondence with the fifth yang. This is like gradu-

ally proceeding onto a boulder, eating and drinking with harmonious de-

THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about no one being able to

light. Cultivating the Tao and awaiting the right time to act, one does not eat

overcome her after all is getting what was wished for.

without working.

The fifth yang is in the honored position, which is like a high mountaintop.



■ Below he corresponds with his wife, the second yin, who is eating and

3 yang: Geese gradually proceed onto high ground. The husband

drinking happily, taking care of herself. As she is untouched by the third

goes on an expedition and does not return; the wife gets

yang, she "does not conceive for three years; after all no one could overcome

pregnant but does not raise the child. This is not good. It is

her," and "this is auspicious." This is like when an enlightened ruler finds

beneficial to defend against enemies.

excellent administrators, thus fulfilling the dream of finding wise people. Is

THE IMAGE: this not delightful? The husband goes on an expedition and does not

return—leaving the group is disgraceful. The wife who gets



pregnant but does not raise the child loses the way. It is ■ Top yang: Geese gradually proceed onto high ground. beneficial to defend against enemies, harmoniously protecting

Their feathers can be used for ceremonies. Good fortune.

one another.

THE IMAGE: What is fortunate about their feathers being

The third yang is like geese gradually proceeding onto high ground; there is

suitable for use in ceremonies is that they cannot be put in

no corresponding partner above, so there is no water. Geese do not mate at

disarray.

random, but the fourth yin also has no corresponding partner and is next to

the third yang. If the third yang "goes on an expedition" to follow the fourth

The top yang is also on high ground, like the third yang. But the high ground

yin, this is leaving the group of geese and is disgraceful. If the fourth yin

of the third yang is the south, where the geese fly in the fall; they go in

goes down to the third yang, this is losing the way, and though she gets preg-

among humans, so they are unfortunate. On the other hand, the high

nant, she does not dare to raise the child. Obviously this is not good. When

ground of the top yang is the north, where the geese go in spring; they rise

those who are not appropriate partners form a private liaison, in reality they

beyond the skies, so they are fortunate. As it is said, when the geese fly out

are enemies. If the third yang remains upright and defends against this, then

of sight, how can hunters shoot them? All that can be done is to look afar for

for him there is no disgrace of leaving the group, and for her there is no

their feathers and use them as ornaments for highly accomplished people.

misfortune of losing the way—then they can harmoniously protect one

Also, when geese fly, those in pairs are ranged behind, while only one

another. with no partner is in the lead. This top yang is beyond things and has no

corresponding partner below. This is like a just and dutiful man in society

■ 4 yin: who is fortunate because his will cannot be deranged. "Using feathers for Geese proceed gradually into the trees and may reach a

level roost without trouble. ceremonies" is a traditional expression for exemplary behavior; in such a

person, the function is great indeed. So it is said, "A sage is the teacher of a

THE IMAGE: Reaching a level roost means following docilely. hundred generations."



202 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 54. Marrying a Young Girl 203



■ First yang: Marrying a young girl, taking junior wives.

The lame can walk. To go on leads to good fortune.

54. Marrying a Young Girl



lake below, thunder above THE I MAGE: "Marrying a young girl, taking junior wives" is

because of constancy. The lame can walk to good fortune

Marrying a young girl. To go on an expedition leads to because of service.

misfortune, with nothing gained.

In this hexagram, the bottom trigram, lake, represents the young girls; the

In Buddhist terms, this means practicing gradual meditation. Here "mar- top trigram, thunder, is the husband. Among the three lines of lake, the third

riage" means that one takes concentration on worldly phenomena and yin is the young bride, and the first and second yangs arc the junior wives.

"weds" it to true insight into the way to enlightenment. If one just uses this Among the three lines of thunder, the fourth yang is the husband, the fifth

concentration on phenomena to set up a teaching method, one will surely yin is like the master of ceremonies, and the top yin is like the ancestral

fall into the web of sentimental views, which leads to misfortune. If one in- shrine where the ceremony is held.

dulges in this concentration obsessively, then one will be partial to a tempo- The yang, with the virtue of firmness and uprightness, follows the third

rary byway and will gain nothing. yin in marriage to the fourth yang and becomes his junior wife. The third

yin is as though lame, but can walk with the help of the first yang; therefore

"to go on leads to good fortune." In a junior wife, constancy is an important

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Marrying a young girl is an virtue, serving the bride; thus both are fortunate.

i mportant duty of heaven and earth. If heaven and earth do



not commune, beings do not flourish. Marrying a young girl is ■ 2 yang: The one-eyed can see. It is beneficial to be chaste as a a start toward an end for human society. If she acts out of

hermit.

attraction, the bride is an immature girl. She will be

unfortunate if she goes on, because it is not her place to do so. THE IMAGE: The benefit of the chastity of a hermit is not

Nothing is gained, because weakness prevails over strength. changing the norm.



Contemplating mind uses subtle concentration to unite with subtle insight,

The second yang, by virtue of strength in balance, also follows the third yin

but may also use gradual meditations to foster spiritual powers. If what the

as a junior wife. The third yin is as though one-eyed but can see with the

contemplating mind considers assistance on the way is in fact addictive med-

help of the second yang. If you do not have clarity of vision yourself, and

itation, then the "bride" is immature. If concentration leaves insight behind

have another see for you, who can do this without the chastity of a hermit?

and goes on alone, misfortune is sure to result. If concentration is practiced But this is also just a normal virtue for a junior wife. habitually for a long time and becomes an obsession, nothing is gained.



■ 3 yin: When the bride-to-be seeks, it will be the little sister

THE I MAGE: who is married instead. Thunder over a lake—marrying a young girl.

Developed people consider lasting results and know what is

wrong. THE IMAGE: The bride-to-be who seeks is not right.



When thunder peals, it reverberates over a lake, but the thunder soon dies This line is the focus of the trigram lake, which stands for delight and attrac-

out, while the lake remains the same. This is not the way of permanent mar- tion. For fear that the bride-to-be might be easily moved by attraction, here

riage, nor is it the way of equilibrium of concentration and insight. The way she is warned that she must await the directive of the fifth yin and not let

developed people handle things is that before they take the time to ask how people take her lightly, lest the little sister be preferred for marriage. She is

to start something, they first consider lasting results. If they think of lasting warned because she is out of place.

results, they know what is wrong with acting prematurely, like marrying an



immature girl. If you understand the meaning of this, you can apply it to ■ 4 yang: When it is the wrong time for a girl to marry,

government and to contemplating mind as well. she delays the marriage until the proper time.

204 55. Richness 205 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



THE IMAGE: The purpose of putting off the marriage is to go at

the right time.

55. Richness

Since the third needs the order of the fifth to marry, here one must put off

the wedding. But though the marriage is delayed, there will be a time fire below, thunder above

of union.

Richness is success; a king attains this. Do not worry. Take

advantage of the sun at noon.

■ 5 yin: The emperor marries off his younger sister. The attire of

the lady is not as good as that of the junior wives. The moon When a family has a wife and concubines, it is rich. When a country has

is almost full. This is auspicious. many citizens, it is rich. When contemplating mind has meditation on phe-

nomena to assist the path, it is rich. Richness is surely success, but only a

THE IMAGE: When the emperor marries off his younger sister, "king" can bring about richness. Richness thus is something to be con-

she is not dressed as well as the junior wives. The position is cerned about, but do not worry fruitlessly. One should just be like the light

one of balance, behaving in a noble manner. of the sun illumining all beings.



The fifth yin is the emperor. The third yin is his younger sister, who is also

called the lady. The first and second yangs are the junior wives. In terms of THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Richness is greatness. Action with

their attire, the third is not as good as the first and second; in terms of understanding results in richness. A king attaining this adds

womanhood, she is like the moon nearly full, coming into blossom. She is a greatness. Do not worry—take advantage of the sun at noon;

noblewoman, of the imperial family, yet she can marry beneath her station, it is good to illumine the world. After noon, the sun goes

not being arrogant or conceited. Is this not an auspicious path? down; after becoming full, the moon wanes. The filling and

emptying of heaven and earth wax and wane with time; how



■ Top yin: The woman receives a chest, but there is nothing in it. more so in the case of ghosts and spirits? The man sacrifices a goat, but there is no blood. Nothing is much more so in the case of human beings, and how much

gained. Understanding without action, action without understanding—neither of

these is the way of kings, and neither can bring richness. Therefore only a

THE IMAGE: The top yin has no fulfillment. This is receiving an king can add greatness.

empty chest. When the text says to take advantage of the sun at noon, it does not mean

to stop it and prevent it from setting; it means to take advantage of the light

When one does not accumulate virtue in life, then one has no spirit after

to illumine the world, thus not being shrouded by richness. When it comes

death and cannot cause one's descendants to flourish. When a man marries

to setting, waning, and emptying, even heaven and earth cannot avoid those

simply because he must, this is not the fault of the woman, but the fault of

when the time comes—so what is the benefit of useless worry?

the insubstantiality of one who is weak-minded. Developed people, know-

ing what is wrong by thinking of the lasting results, see this at the outset.

THE IMAGE: Thunder and lightning both come in richness.

Thus do leaders pass judgments and execute punishments.



Passing judgments is like the light of lightning. Executing punishments is

like the awesomeness of thunder. Thunder and lightning in nature both

come once in a while; if they came all the time, things would be destroyed.

Similarly, punishments are meted out by true leaders only when unavoid-

able; if they were handed out casually, the people would be injured. And just

as thunder and lightning come in summertime, true leaders use punish-

ments in times of prosperity and ease.

55. Richness 207

206 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



■ First yang: Meeting your partner, even though you are equals, see the raindrops flying in the sunlight and lose the attainment of the king yin and yang combine and shower a downpour of rain. Therefore you only

there is no problem. If you go on, there will be exaltation.

adding greatness; after all, you cannot do anything thereby. For understand-

ing, the left is best; for action, the right is best. The top yin is at the extreme

THE IMAGE: Though you are equals, there is no problem, but if

of action, being hurt through arbitrary action; in terms of the third yang,

you carry equality too far, there will be disaster.

this is like breaking the right arm. This is the fault of the top yin, not the

In the lines of the other hexagrams, the correspondence of yin and yang is fault of the third yang.

considered right, as in ancient political science when the weak govern

firmly and the enlightened govern gently. Only in the lines of richness is the

pairing of yang with yang and yin with yin considered right, as in ancient . 4 yang: With abundant shade, you see stars at midday.

political science when powerful enemies are overcome by strength and weak Meeting the hidden master is auspicious.

allies are governed gently.

The first yang here is strong and upright; meeting the fourth yang, they THE IMAGE: With abundant shade, the position is not

become partners and refine each other through their interaction. Therefore, appropriate. Seeing the stars at midday means it is dark and

even though you are equals there is no problem, and if you go on there will dim. Meeting the hidden master is auspicious in terms of

be exaltation. If you do not go on quickly, and come to carry equality too far, action.

you will not avoid "the sun setting after noon," and there will be disaster.

As positive strength is the master of action, producing clouds that block the

sun, so the shade is abundant and you see stars at midday. Luckily you meet

■ the first yang, which is firm and upright, like the sun just rising, so there is 2 yin: With abundant shade, you see stars at midday. If you go,

you will be afflicted by doubt. If sincerity is expressed, there value in proceeding. Its power can be your "hidden master," dispersing the

will be good fortune. dark mist, illumining the world as it goes, not losing the meaning of rich

success—therefore it is auspicious.

THE IMAGE: Expressing sincerity means expressing intention For the second yin, the abundant shade in which you see stars points to

truthfully. the fifth yin being obscured by the fourth yang. Here the fourth yang makes

its own shade abundant, causing the stars to be visible in the daytime, so it is

The second yin is the focus of fire, representing one who is most illumined.

criticized for being out of place, dark and dim.

Uniting with the flexible balance of the fifth yin allows mutual benefit, but

the fifth yin is blocked by the fourth yang, so this is like seeing stars at mid-

day because of the abundant shade. Now, the fifth yin is a gentle friend, and ■ 5 yin: Bringing brilliance, there is celebration and praise.

can be moved by sincerity, not to be answered in haste—therefore, if you go, This is auspicious.

you will be doubted. Only if sincerity is expressed will there be good for-

tune, because truthfulness can get rid of doubt, and its expression gets rid of THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about the fifth yin is that

the shadows. The shade is basically not real; it only exists because of doubt. there is joyful celebration.

When the intention is expressed, doubt is removed, and when doubt is re-

Here flexible balance is in the place of honor, while the second yin brings it

moved, the shade is gone and the "sun" can be seen.

to light with sincerity. Although this totally depends on the latter's quality of

illumination, it is also due to one's ability to bring it out. This represents

■ 3 yang: With abundant rain, you see the drops in the sunlight. ruler and administrators combining their good qualities, so that all the

You break your right arm but are not to blame. world benefits.



THE IMAGE: When the rain is abundant, you cannot do great

works. When you break your right arm, it cannot be used. ■ Top yin: Making the house rich, shading the home. A peek in

One who is strong and upright, and also has understanding, can thereby the door finds quiet, no one there, unseen for three years.

Inauspicious.

observe the world. But because the third yang corresponds with the top yin,

208 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 5 6. Travel 209



THE IMAGE: Making the house rich is pride. A peek in the door process, so when they travel they fully perceive the correctness of creativity,

finds quiet, no one there, for one has hidden oneself. receptivity, and the whole process. How can anyone be so careless as to dis-

regard the great significance of the timing involved?

This is weakness in a negative position, at the culmination of action, at the

In Buddhist terms, the three lower worlds—the world of common pres-

top of richness. Here one rejects illumination, for fear that if the light were

ence, the world of expedient release, and the world of true reward—are all

allowed in, it would reveal oneself. So one makes the house rich, with high

journeys. Performing great enlightening works in these worlds, the signifi-

walls and great overhanging eaves, like someone with enormous pride.

cance of time is therefore great. But from the point of view of the spiritual

Shading the home means putting up a lot of screens to hide oneself, so that

being in the world of silent light, this is still "a little success."

even if someone peeked in the door, it would seem as if no one were there.

This is going from darkness into darkness, unseen for as long as three years,

incomparably inauspicious. There "three years" means a long time, and it THE IMAGE: Fire on a mountain—traveling. True leaders apply

also refers to the fact that the top yin is separated from the third yang by punishments with understanding and prudence, and do not

three lines. keep people imprisoned.



A mountain is like an inn, fire is like a passing traveler; this is a leader's in-

spection of the provinces on patrol, based on the understanding represented

by the light of fire and the prudence represented by the steadiness of a



56.

Travel mountain. Therefore punishments can be applied, but people are not to be

kept in prison. If people are kept imprisoned without judgment, this means

mountain below, fire above losing not only understanding but prudence as well.

In terms of contemplating mind, when thoughts arise, notice them. On

Travel has a little success. Travel is auspicious if correct.

noticing them, break through them by reflection, without becoming excited

or rueful.

After midday, the sun begins to set; after the moon becomes full, it begins to

wane: therefore, after richness, travel is explained. Richness adds greatness,



travel has a little success; but there is no great or small in correctness—it is ■ First yin: Petty fussing on a journey brings misfortune. great in the great, small in the small. The essential point is not to lose cor-

rectness; then it is auspicious wherever one goes. THE IMAGE: Petty fussing on a journey results in the misfortune

of frustration.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Travel has a little success. Flexibility

Here negative weakness is in a low position, not balanced, not correctly ori-

attains balance on the outside and harmonizes with power. ented. This is one who gets worn out with petty fussing on a journey. Lack-

Calmly cleaving to understanding, therefore there is a little

ing lofty intelligence and great aspiration, one brings misfortune on oneself.

success, and travel is auspicious if correct. The significance of

the time of travel is great indeed.

■ 2 yin: Coming to an inn on a journey with supplies in hand,

Because of being outside, a journey is called travel. When on a journey, it is

one gains the loyalty of a servant.

best to be flexible, and in applying flexibility it is best to be balanced. When



balanced, one can harmonize with power, so that there is nowhere in the THE IMAGE: Gaining the loyalty of a servant, after all there is world where it is difficult to be. By being calm, one can be at peace wherever

no complaint.

one is. By cleaving to understanding, one can see opportunities and act.

The correctness of this travel is the correctness of creativity, the cor- When traveling, for each line the next line above it is an inn, a resting place.

rectness of receptivity, the correctness of the whole process. The great sages Yin should stick with yang, and yang should stick with yin. Now the second

of all times, from emperors down to commoners, have all dealt with travel yin is flexible, balanced, and correct, harmonizing with the strength of the

completely in terms of correctness of creativity, receptivity, and the whole third yang; therefore it "comes to an inn." Being yin in a yin place, and also



210 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 5 7. Wind 211



in the body of mountain, this is having "supplies in hand." Below is the first though one may lose an arrow, after all one will get pheasant. Therefore

yin, who fusses pettily but has no disloyalty to the one in the second place, people laud one, and heaven gives one a mandate. This is because when

so this is "gaining the loyalty of a servant." Now "coming to an inn with people harmonize with heaven, heaven will help them; this is called reach-

supplies in hand" relates to external conditions, while "gaining the loyalty of ing the highest.

a servant" derives from inner qualities. When one has qualities like this,



it can be said that travel is correct and auspicious, so "after all there is ■ Top yang: A bird burns its nest. The traveler first laughs, no complaint."

afterward cries. Losing the cow while at ease is unfortunate.



■ Burning the inn on a journey, losing the servants, THE IMAGE: Because the travel is in a high place, it is just to be 3 yang:

is dangerous even if one is upright. destroyed. Losing the cow while at ease, after all one does not

listen.

THE IMAGE: Burning the inn on a journey, one will also be

injured. In one's dealings with inferiors on a journey, duty When traveling, it is best to be flexible. Here firmness is not balanced or cor-

is lost. rect, and is at the culmination of fire, where there is nothing covering or

protecting one; so it is like a bird burning its nest.

For the third line, the fourth is the inn; but here yang meets yang, and this First one laughs because of the pleasure of being in a high place; later one

one is in the body of fire, so one "burns the inn" and also is injured. Further- cries because of having burnt the nest and having no place of refuge.

more, one is too adamant and not balanced; when on this journey, one still Fire originally has the docility of a cow, but by arrogance and laziness

does not know how to treat inferiors well, thus causing one's servants to be- from presuming upon strength, one loses this unawares. What can compare

come disaffected and leave, through no fault of their own. to that misfortune?

So the burning of the nest is due to the travel being in a high place; this is



■ treating people with hauteur, so it is only justice that one has brought this

4 yang: Traveling to a place, one gets resources and tools, but

destruction about—it cannot be attributed to fate. The loss of the cow is due

one's heart is not happy.

to not knowing how to examine oneself within, to being arrogant and self-

righteous; therefore the disaster arises from carelessness and heedlessness—

THE IMAGE: Traveling to a place, one has not gotten a position.

one cannot blame another.

Getting resources and tools, one's heart is not yet happy.



When developed people perform their duties, their aim is not in the re-

sources and tools. This line represents those who come to a place to work

and have the resources and tools, but still are not in a position to really

exercise their abilities to the fullest. Therefore, even though they have the 57. Wind

wherewithal, their desire to do what is right is still not fulfilled, so they are

wind below, wind above

not happy.

The small comes through successfully. It is beneficial to have

a place to go. It is beneficial to see great people.

■ 5 yin: Shooting pheasant, one arrow is lost. Ultimately one is

lauded and given a mandate.

Those who manage travel well are at home wherever they enter; without

THE IMAGE: Ultimately being lauded and given a mandate is adaptability, there is no way to fit oneself in. Wind has one yin entering in

under two yangs. The yin has ability and follows the yangs to effect its func-

reaching the highest.

tion; therefore "the small comes through successfully" and benefits from

This is just what is referred tows "flexibility attaining balance on the outside having a place to go, benefits from seeing great people.

and harmonizing with power." Opening one's mind to invite the wise from In terms of contemplating mind, when learning concentration, it is best to

all over the world to help one on one's journey is like shooting pheasant; follow true insight to see essential truth.



A

212 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 5 7. Wind 213



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Double wind expresses directions. THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about this frequency is the

Strength follows balance and rectitude, so the aim is carried attainment of balance.

out. The weak all follow the strong, so the small come through

successfully, benefiting from having a place to go, benefiting The positive strength of the fifth yang is balanced and correct; it is the master

from seeing great people. of Wind and is as though sitting on a platform. The second yang then stands

for the administrator with the virtue of obedience, who should be below the

When people with leadership qualities are on a journey, if they get a following platform. However, since here one has gotten the obedience of the first yin

they become leaders. When the people have ability and follow the leaders, the because of one's strength and central position, one cannot avoid suspicion of

leaders are then considerate and respectful, expressing their directions in plotting to take power. Therefore it is necessary to use scribes to record one's

such a way as to comfort the people and make them secure. actions and use mediums to convey one's sincerity, doing so frequently, not

It is because strength follows the virtues of balance and rectitude that the daring to be remiss. Then balance is attained, and there is good fortune,

aim can be carried out; therefore the weak all follow it. If the strong are not no blame.

balanced and upright, they cannot win over the weak; if the weak do not



follow the strong, they cannot even attain a little success. The benefit they ■ 3 yang: Repeatedly attempting obedience is humiliating. get from having a place to go and seeing great people is just how the small

come through successfully; if they do not go and see the great, how can

THE IMAGE: The humiliation of repeatedly attempting obedience

they succeed? is that the aim is frustrated.



One who is strong and in a position of strength is not one who can be obe-

THE IMAGE: Wind following wind—thus do leaders articulate

dient; trying to learn obedience, time and again one fails. When the aim is

directions and carry out tasks.

frustrated, it is not merely that the mind wavers; the wavering can be over-

Only when the wind comes continuously can it sway things; only when come, but the frustration is humiliating.

leaders articulate their directions clearly and carry out their tasks earnestly



can they move the people. Therefore the virtue of true leaders is likened ■ 4 yin: Regret vanishes. The hunt yields three catches. to wind.

THE IMAGE: The hunt yields three catches—there is success.



■ First yin: Advancing and retreating, it is beneficial to be as Flexibility that is correct is the main point in obedience. Following a leader

steadfast as a soldier. who is strong and balanced, this line represents an easygoing, magna-

nimous high official, whom all the wise and talented people in the world

THE IMAGE: Advancing and retreating means the mind is

would be glad to work for. Therefore it is like making three catches on a

wavering. The benefit of the steadfastness of a soldier is that

hunt; the three catches are the other three yangs besides the fifth, which is

the mind is under control.

in the position of leader.



The first yin is the subject of Wind. Wind focuses on entering, but being re-

cessive and weak, it suffers from many doubts; therefore it may advance, but ■ 5 yang: Correctness leads to good fortune; regret vanishes,

then retreats after a while. Now there is nothing in the world to doubt; it is none do not benefit. There is no beginning, but there is an

only that one's mind itself wavers. Resolve this with the steadfastness of a end. The three days before a change and the three days after

soldier, and the mind will be under control; then there is nothing in the a change are auspicious. world that is hard to manage. The steadfastness of a soldier spoken of here is

what the judgment calls having a place to go and seeing great people. THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about the fifth yang is that its

position is correctly balanced.



■ 2 yang: Obedience below the platform, using scribes and Though one may have the qualities, if one does not have the position, one

mediums frequently, is auspicious, without blame. dare not presume to make changes. If one has the position but does not have

214 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 58. Delight 215



the qualities, one cannot make changes. The fifth yang represents one whose others find satisfaction in this, they too are delighted. How can joy not

qualities and position are in mutual accord; therefore, attaining correctness come through?

of following, there is good fortune, regret vanishes, and none do not benefit. However, developed people do not enjoy attempts to delight them with

But once things have changed, there is no beginning; when the change is what is not right, so delight is only beneficial if correct. As the classics say,

right, therefore there is an end. Also, it is necessary to be careful "three do not destroy people to follow your own desires; do not deviate from the

days" before a change, and it is also necessary to first assess "three days" right path to win people's praise.

after a change; then it will be auspicious.



THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: The lake stands for delight. Strength

■ in balance, flexible outside, delight is beneficial if correct; this Top yang: The obedient are below the platform. Losing resources

and tools, it is right that there be misfortune. is how to obey heaven and respond to humanity. When the

people are led with delight, the people forget their toil; when

THE IMAGE: The obedient are below the platform; above there difficulty is entered into with delight, the people forget their

is an impasse. Losing resources and tools, it is proper that death. The greatness of delight is how it inspires the people.

there be misfortune.

When strength is balanced, there is no biased selfishness of emotional de-

With positive strength at the top of the hexagram, one places the obedient in sires; when flexible outside, there is no belligerence or violence. This is the

the positions of the fifth and second yangs below one's platform, while one is most correct delight, the virtue shared by heaven and earth. If the people

at an impasse above yet doesn't know it. Therefore the resources and tools of are led with this virtue, the people will naturally forget their toil. If difficulty

the first and fourth yin are employed by the second and fifth yangs, and do is entered into with this virtue, the people will naturally forget their death.

not work for one in the top position. That misfortune is proper and cannot This is the greatness of delight; the people inspire themselves and transform

be avoided. each other for the better. It does not mean someone else urges them on.



To interpret the six lines in terms of Buddhism, the first represents medi- THE IMAGE: Joined lakes are joyful. Thus do developed people

tation on worldly phenomena. There is progress, and there is also regression. study and practice with companions.

The second represents insight into emptiness. Here one should use "scribes

and mediums" to get in touch with the manifestations of reality. The third When lakes are joined, they do not dry up; when learning is done with as-

represents infertile intellectual insight, which cannot be kept securely. The sociates, it is not isolated and narrow. Associating with companions in cul-

fourth represents transmundane meditation, which has many virtues. The tural pursuits is study; fostering humanity through association is practice.

fifth represents accurate insight into the center of all things, which takes dif- Study without practice leads to nothing; practice without study leads to

ferentiating understanding into complete understanding, so it has no begin- danger. Study, and what is said does not go against the unsaid; practice, and

ning but has an end. The top represents aberrant insight, which destroys the unsaid proves to tally with what is said. Also, when you study, the unsaid

is said; when you practice, what is said becomes the unsaid.

good qualities.



■ First yang: Harmonious delight is auspicious.



THE IMAGE: What is auspicious about harmonious delight is



58. that action is not doubted. Delight



lake Strong and upright, without a correspondent, one harmonizes without imi- below, lake above

tating. This is correct delight. Because there is no selfishness, there is no

Delight comes through, beneficial if correct.

doubt.



When one gets through, one is fulfilled; when one is fulfilled, one is

delighted. When one is fulfilled, others find satisfaction in this; when ■ 2 yang: Sincere delight is auspicious. Regret vanishes.

216 59. Dispersal THE BUDDHIST I CHING 217



THE IMAGE: This represents being insubstantial and only hoping to draw people in by What is auspicious about sincere delight is

confidence in the aim. pleasing them. Thus the mental state is not clear.



When strong and balanced, sincerity within shows outwardly. One has con-

fidence in one's aim, and can also win the confidence of the world.



59. Dispersal

■ 3 yin: Coming for delight is inauspicious.

water below, wind above

THE IMAGE: What is inauspicious about coming for delight is

Dispersal is successful. The king goes to his ancestral

being out of place.

shrine. The benefit crosses great rivers. It is beneficial if

correct.

If one has no inner substance, but vainly desires to act outwardly as if one

did, thereby coming on to people to get their pleasure, this is sure to put

relationships in disarray. This is why good people dislike the crafty. To be joyful and then disperse the joy means to share the joy impartially with

the world and not enjoy the happiness alone; therefore this dispersal is suc-

cessful. Once the ruler can share happiness with the people, he can thereby

■ 4 yang: Deliberating about delight, one is uneasy. please his ancestors, so "the king goes to his ancestral shrine," and he can

If one is firm and swift, there will be happiness. thereby please the people of the surrounding nations, so "the benefit crosses

great rivers." But joy must be in what is right; hence the warning that "it is

THE IMAGE: The happiness of the fourth yang is celebration.

beneficial if correct."



Delight is only beneficial if correct. The delight gotten from coming on to

people is not worth caring about; if you cannot bear to give it up, then your THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Dispersal is successful. Strength

mind will surely be uneasy. Only if you are firm and independently decisive, comes and does not become exhausted. Flexibility is in its

swift and unhesitating, will you have happiness. If high officials are not in- place outwardly and assimilates above. The king goes to his

fluenced by flatterers, then everyone in the country will have reason to cele- ancestral shrine; the king is then in the center. The benefit

brate; it won't be the happiness of one person alone. crosses great rivers—riding on wood has success.



■ The strength of the second yang "comes and does not become exhausted."

5 yang: There is inspiration in sincerity toward the fallen.

The flexibility of the fourth yin "is in its place outwardly" and follows the

fifth yang above. This is expanding the "firmness in the center and flexibility

THE IMAGE: Being sincere toward the fallen, the position is

indeed appropriate. outside" indicated in the Joy hexagram, to disperse the joy throughout the

world. How can it not be successful?

This represents one with positive strength balanced and correct, whose sin- Also, the fifth yang is in the center of the upper trigram; this symbolizes

cerity within shows outside, developed to the highest degree. Thus one can the king going to his ancestral shrine and pleasing his ancestors. Riding on

exercise sincerity not only toward good people, but even toward people who the wood of the wind trigram over the water of the water trigram symbolizes

have fallen from the right way, getting them to change their evil ways and the certain success of pleasing the surrounding nations; correctness lies

follow what is good, to turn away from error and return to rectitude; so therein.

there is inspiration therein. Once one has the qualities and also has the posi-



tion, one's influence can be this great. THE IMAGE: Wind travels over the water, dispersing.

Ancient kings honored God and set up shrines.

■ Top yin: Induced delight.

When wind travels over water, there are waves everywhere, without exert-

THE IMAGE: ing force. Ancient kings honored God to serve heaven and set up shrines to Induced delight is not enlightened.

59. Dispersal 219

218 THE BUDDHIST I CHING

ponding partner below—it completely disperses its group to unite with the

serve their ancestors. Their utter sincerity and devotion were able to move

total community, so that the whole world is one family and all beings are one

the world, and the waves of their gratitude reached everywhere. This is why

body. So even though there is dispersal, in reality there is assembly. Sages have

Confucius said that one who understood the right way to honor heaven and

no self, but there is nothing that is not their self. This is the path of illumination

earth, and the meaning of the ceremony in honor of the ancestors, could

and true greatness, inconceivable to ordinary thought.

rule a country with the greatest of ease.



■ ■ 5 yang: Scattering sweat; the great call scatters. First yin: For rescue, it is fortunate that the horse is strong.

The king abides. There is no fault.

THE IMAGE: The fortune of the first yin is in following.

THE IMAGE: The king abides without fault; this is the right

The first line is at the bottom of water; sensing the wind of the fourth line, it position. uses it for rescue. Being rescued, it emerges from water up onto land. The

word for the name of the trigram water also means concavity; on a horse, a Giving out a great call to share joy with the people is like sweat coming from

slightly concave back is considered beautiful. Now the first yin follows the the center of the body and dripping over the four limbs. The point of this is

second yang, so "the horse is strong," which is fortunate. that the fourth yin disperses its group because the fifth yang is the king and

abides in the right position; the fourth then can assimilate and therefore

gives a great call like sweat scattering outward. The king abiding in the right

■ 2 yang: Running to support on dispersal, regret vanishes. position is always in the center, so there is no fault.



THE IMAGE: Running to support on dispersal is attaining what



is wished. ■ Top yang: Scattering the blood, going far away, there is no fault.



This is precisely what the judgment calls strength coming without getting

THE IMAGE: Scattering the blood means avoiding harm.

exhausted. At the time of dispersal, one comes running to reliable support,

resting unaffected in midstream, and attains the wish to please oneself and Blood here is an image of water. People have great afflictions because they

please others, so regret vanishes. have bodies, which they are always emotionally attached to and guard as

their selves. But if we examine the body sanely, we see that it is a mass of



■ lymph and blood, a source of harm. 3 yin: Dispersing the self, there is no regret.

The top yang uses the wind of the fourth yin to disperse the self of the

THE IMAGE: Dispersing the self, the aim is outside. third yin; the third yin can be called forgetting oneself for the sake of the

country—therefore the aim is outside, and there is no regret. However, if

Here yin is on top of the body of water; the wind of the fourth yin in concert not for the top yang putting harm at a distance, how could the third yin

with the top yang "disperses" it in the sense that its whole being is scattered bring about any benefit?

into waves to bring nourishing moisture to living beings. The aim is outside,

not in oneself, so there is no regret.

To give a combined explanation of the six lines, the second yang is like a

wise and good overseer who receives the current of civilizing influence and

■ 4 yin: Dispersing the group is very auspicious. On dispersal, spreads it. The fourth yin is like an illustrious high official who is completely

there is assembly, inconceivable to the ordinary. fair and impartial. The fifth yang is like a sage king who pacifies the age,

sharing happiness with the populace. The top yang is like a minister of edu-

THE IMAGE: Dispersing the group is very auspicious—the

cation who educates the people and removes what is harmful. The first yin

illumination is great. thereby gets out of danger and, having gotten rid of suffering, will surely

This is what the judgment calls flexibility finding its place outside and as- experience happiness, and so is fortunate. The third yin thereby forgets per-

sonal selfishness and, having avoided harm, will surely promote benefit, so

si milating above. Flexibility in the proper place is the main element of obe-

has no regret.

dience; the fourth yin assimilates to the fifth yang above and has no corres -

220 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 6 0. Regulation 221



■ First yang: Not leaving home, there is no fault.



THE IMAGE: Not leaving home is knowing passage and

60. Regulation

obstruction.

lake below, water above

Regulation has many meanings, depending on the context in which it is

Regulation is successful, but painful regulation is not to be applied.

held to. Here, if we are talking about regulation in the sense of timing, one is

strong and upright but is in a low place, and the second yang blocks one's

Water is dispersed by wind, regulated by a lake. When it is regulated, it does advance; so one adapts to the time and stops, "not leaving home."

not overflow and does not dry up, so it can always provide moisture; there-

fore regulation is successful. If dispersal is excessive, it results in exhaustion,

so it is taken up with regulation; but too much regulation results in suffer- ■ 2 yang: Not going outside bodes ill.



ing, so it is not to be held to permanently.

THE IMAGE: Not going outside bodes ill, in that one misses the

ti ming in the extreme.

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Regulation is successful. Firmness

In terms of timing, here one is in a position to act, and also has the qualities

and flexibility divide, and firmness gains balance. Painful

of strength and balance. The third yin has already opened the gate, but there

regulation is not to be held to, because that would lead to an

is no corresponding partner above. Consequently, holding fast to petty regu-

impasse. Work through danger joyfully, take charge of the

lation is a great loss.

situation with discipline, get through with balance and

rectitude. As heaven and earth are regulated, the four seasons

take place. When laws are established with regulation, they do ■ 3 yin: Without regulation there will be lament,

not damage property or injure people. but you cannot blame anyone.



When one attains balance, one does not suffer pain. When one suffers pain, THE IMAGE: Whose fault is the lament that comes from lack of

one comes to an impasse, and when one is at an impasse, one cannot deal regulation?

with ordinary life. If one does not suffer pain, one is joyful, and so can also

work through danger. Only by taking charge of the situation with discipline In terms of timing, this means first indulging in feelings and doing what you

is balance and rectitude achieved; only by balance and rectitude can one get please, without knowing how to regulate yourself; afterward troubles come

through and not come to an impasse. Nature has four seasons, kings have and you lament in vain. You bring fault upon yourself and cannot blame

laws; both of these are what is referred to as getting through by balance anyone else.

and rectitude.



■ 4 yin: Peaceful regulation is successful.

THE IMAGE: Water over a lake, regulated. Leaders establish

THE IMAGE: The success of peaceful regulation is in taking up

numbers and measures, and consider virtuous conduct.

the higher path.

In matters of dress, architecture, music and dance, hierarchies, salary scales,

In terms of timing, here flexibility gains correct orientation, being in the

and so on, there are appropriate numbers and measures, which are estab-

position of a high official and taking up the directives of the leader; there-

lished to regularize them, so that there may be neither excess nor lack, nei-

fore it is peaceful regulation. This is what is known as a prime minister

ther extravagance nor restriction. Customary social relations are conducted

of peace.

based on virtues, considered so as to regularize them, so there is neither ex-

cess nor lack, and they can be inherited and transmitted. This is like a lake

regulating water, according to the amount and depth. It is only essential to ■ 5 yang: Contented regulation is auspicious. To go on will result

make sure that the water does not spill over or dry up. in exaltation.

222 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 6 1. Sincerity in the Center 223



THE I MAGE: achieve the ultimate fluidity to go anywhere. Unless one is upright, one can- What is auspicious about contented regulation is

that the position one is in is balanced. not master ultimate constancy wherever one may be. If one does not cross

great rivers, one cannot refine the mind by experience and effectively func-

Here positive strength is balanced and correct, in the position of honor. This tion. If one is not beneficially upright, one cannot integrate phenomena

is one who manages the situation with discipline. There is neither excess nor through the design of reality and establish a basis. lack, so there is contentment and a good outlook. This is carried out without

anything wrong, so to go on will result in exaltation. Because one's position

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: With sincerity in the center,

is balanced, one cannot be obstructed by the missed timing of others.

flexibility is within and firmness is in the center. Joyful and

docile, sincerity then transforms the nation. The simple-

■ Top yin: Painful regulation bodes ill if persisted in. minded are fortunate in that sincerity affects the simple-

By repenting, it is eliminated. minded. It is beneficial to cross great rivers, riding on a

wooden boat that is empty. Sincerity in the center with

THE IMAGE: Painful regulation bodes ill if persisted in, because

beneficial uprightness responds naturally.

that path comes to an impasse.

If we look at the whole hexagram, the two flexible lines are inside: this

In terms of timing, this is weakness in a situation of extreme regulation,

stands for true obedience with an open mind, without the slightest bit of

holding fast and not adapting. That path therefore comes to an impasse.

belligerent selfishness.

Even if correct, it still bodes ill; one clings to it as correct, but really that is

If we look at the hexagram divided into upper and lower parts, two firm

not correct. Only if one repents and changes can one avoid coming to

lines are in the center: this stands for truthfulness and genuine sincerity, un-

an impasse. Since one does not cone to an impasse, the bad outlook can

adulterated by emotional desires.

be eliminated.

The joy symbolized by the lake trigram moves people harmoniously; the

docility symbolized by the wind trigram integrates with people harmo-

niously. Therefore the nation will be spontaneously transformed.

To say that sincerity affects the simple-minded is the same as saying that

sincerity is like being simple-minded. That is because when people are

61. Sincerity in the Center clever and crafty, they mostly lose the sensitive response that comes from the

subconscious, and are not as good in this respect as the simple-minded.

lake below, wind above

Therefore it is necessary to be sincere in a simple-minded way before one

Sincerity in the center is auspicious when simple-minded. can attain sincerity in the center.

It is beneficial to cross great rivers. It is beneficial to be The wind trigram is associated with wood and here forms a boat floating

upright. on lake, a body of water. The boat is empty inside, and the wood is strong;

therefore it can carry anything and travel any distance. When people are

Because the four seasons have regularity, all beings trust them, and each at- flexible inside, they are like an empty boat; when their strength is in bal-

tains its growth and development. Because measures and virtuous conduct ance, they are like strong wood: then they can go through myriad ups and

have regularity, everyone in the land trusts them, and this makes them sen- downs without being defeated.

sitively responsive. Sincerity in the center is the ultimate righteousness in the world. Only by

Sincerity means sensitive response and integration; the center is the being beneficially upright can one attain sincerity in the center. This cannot

source of sensitive response and integration. Because of sensing from the be forced; it is just response to natural inherent qualities.

center, there is response from the center, like the simple-minded, who do Observe how dolphins leap in the waves when a strong wind is about to

not set up arrangements or make deliberate calculations. When sincerity in arise. The dolphins have no intention of sensing the wind, and the wind has

the center can be simple-minded, it is auspicious. no intention of responding to the dolphins. It is because their minds are

But in order to reach this path, it is beneficial to cross great rivers, and it is empty that their patterns are fulfilled.

also beneficial to be upright. Unless one crosses great rivers, one cannot So it is with the essence of the human mind in the immediate present: it is





T




224 61. Sincerity in the Center 225 THE BUDDHIST I CHING



not inside, not outside, not in between, not in the past, not in the present, ■ 2 yang: The calling crane is in the shade; the fledgling joins it.

not in the future. When we look for it, we cannot grasp it—this can be I have a good cup, which I will quaff with you.

called utterly empty. But for this, the sky has no way to cover; but for this,

THE IMAGE: The fledgling joining it is the heart's desire.

the earth has no way to support; but for this, the sun and moon have no way

to shine; but for this, beings have no way to grow; but for this, sages have no

Here strength attains balance but is below two yins. This represents one who

way to proceed.

is obscure but daily becomes more illustrious. The crane calls, the fledgling

Comprehending things without missing anything can be called ultimate

joins in; the sensitive response comes from nature and involves no arrange-

fulfill ment. Emotional attachments are fundamentally empty, while the sub-

ment or forced effort. Therefore it is called the heart's desire. Here "the fledg-

stance of mind is truly real and certainly cannot be called empty. The sub-

ling" does not have a specific reference; it just means someone of similar

stance of the pattern of nature and being is fundamentally real, while ap-

qualities in a relationship of mutual trust and sincerity.

pearances are the same as illusions and dreams; they cannot be called real.

Therefore flexibility and firmness are not two things, the inside and the

center are not two places. Only those who know this can be called upright, ■ 3 yin: Finding a mate, one sometimes drums, sometimes stops,

can cross rivers, and can reach simplicity in sincerity, thus leading to good sometimes cries, sometimes sings.

fortune.

THE IMAGE: Sometimes drumming, sometimes stopping,

the position is not appropriate.

TF E IMAGE: There is wind over a lake, with sincerity in the

center. True leaders consider judgments and postpone If we look at the whole hexagram, the third and fourth lines are what is

execution. referred to as flexibility being within. But now we are talking about each of

the lines individually, in which case the third yin is not balanced or upright;

True leaders know that when people do wrong, sometimes it arises from originally it should correspond with the top yang, but the latter has as-

circumstances beyond their control; if they know how the people feel, they cended to the skies and calls alone, not paying any attention to the former.

are sympathetic and sad for them, so they consider their judgments, giving Nearby, the third yin finds the fourth yin, which is a mate of the same kind;

weight to the people's merits and trying to minimize their faults. When it therefore there is sometimes delight in what one has found, so "one some-

comes to execution, they would prefer to let the wayward slip by than to kill ti mes drums," but sometimes there is resentment in the relationship, so one

the innocent. In this way, if one person is executed, everyone will submit "sometimes stops." Sometimes one thinks of the top yang afar, so one "some-

and, even if executed, will not hate the executioner. ti mes cries," and sometimes one temporarily enjoys the fourth yin, so one

"sometimes sings." All of this is due to lack of virtuous qualities and being



■ out of place. First yang: Preparedness leads to a good outcome.

If there is something else, one is not at rest.

■ 4 yin: The moon is almost full. When the horse's mate

THE IMAGE: The good outcome of the first yang's preparedness

disappears, there is no fault.

is because the mind is not changed.

THE IMAGE: The horse's mate disappearing means breaking

Developed people are wary of what they may not notice. This is setting to

with peers to go higher.

work before the arising of a single thought. The fundamental essence is itself

the work, the work is itself the fundamental essence. Therefore one can go Here flexibility is correctly oriented. This is one in whom hidden virtues are

unrecognized and not regret it. This is what is called being obscure yet daily well developed, who is therefore like the moon approaching fullness. The

becoming more illustrious. - third yin wrongly wants to be one's mate, but one must get rid of that asso-

As soon as a thought arises, this is called "something else." Then the mind ciation and rise higher to unite with universally impartial sincerity in the

changes, and one is not at rest. The shameless adventurism of undeveloped center, in order to be without fault.

people seeking a stroke of luck starts from a single thought; so it is best to be

prepared at the outset.



226 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 62. Small Excess 227



■ 5 yang: With sincerity that is firm, there is no fault. ing, and excessive abstemiousness in consumption, there is still a need for

correction. These are also examples of small excess.

THE IMAGE: With sincerity that is firm, the position is correct.

When the search for confidence produces small excess, that excess can be

Here positive strength is balanced and correct, and is in the position of corrected, so it turns out all right. When correcting deviations turns into

honor. With inner qualities and position in mutual accord, all the world small excess, that excess is wothwhile, so it turns out all right.

trusts one, firm and unshakable. But it is essential to be correct. When one is correct, small excess then

However, this is just consummating the path of sincerity in the center, that becomes no excess. If one is not correct, then small excess turns into great

is all; nothing more is added. That is why it only says there is no fault. This excess. Therefore, when there is small excess, one can only do small things,

seems to be like the teaching that with complete fulfillment of enlighten- hoping to return to the state where there is no excess. One cannot do great

ment ultimately nothing is attained. things, lest unexpected problems develop.

It is like when a bird flies by, leaving its cry. It should not ascend, but

rather descend: if it ascends, its cry becomes inaudible, while if it descends,

■ Top yang: A rooster ascends to the skies. Self-righteousness its cry becomes audible. Hearing the bird's cry symbolizes hearing about one's

leads to misfortune. own excesses and quickly changing; then one can return to the state where

there is no excess. The excess is small, and the good fortune is then great.

THE IMAGE: How can the rooster who ascends to the skies last?



Here strength is not balanced cor r ectly. This is one who believes in his own

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Small excess is excess in small

good name, lofty status, and intellectual views, and does not know the way things, which turns out all right. When there is excess, it is

of inner flexibility and balance. This is like a rooster abandoning his hen and beneficial to be correct, which means to act in accord with the

climbing up to crow on the roof. This is already inauspicious; how much the ti me. Flexibility is in balance, so small matters have a good

more so if he wants to ascend to the skies, because a rooster cannot fly to the outcome. Firmness is out of place and not balanced, so it is not

sky—people will surely think it strange and kill him, so he cannot last. suitable for great matters. There is the image of a flying bird

therein: the cry left by the flying bird should not rise but

descend—then there will be great good fortune. Rising meets

opposition, descending meets accord.



62. Small Excess Small things are small matters; when there is excess in small matters, they

mountain below, thunder above still do not fail to succeed. If there is excess in great things, then it is only

beneficial if there is a place to go in order to succeed. Only by acting in ac-

Small excess turns out all right. It is beneficial to be correct. cord with the time can one avoid losing correctness in spite of excess.

It is all right for small matters, not for great matters. A fly- The main statement of the hexagram only speaks of correctness, while

ing bird leaves its cry; it should not ascend but descend— the judgment particularly points out acting in accord with the time. What

then there will be great good fortune. this shows is that in a time when there is excess, that excess becomes the

reason for correction. If one does not act in accord with the time, even if one

When true leaders establish measures and consider virtuous conduct, they insists on hiding oneself in the state where there is no excess, that would not

make them asiregular as the four seasons, so that even ignorant people trust be considered correct.

them. How can there be any excess in that? Only those who cannot "re- People have two qualities, firmness and flexibility. If they are in charge of

spond to nature" and "are uneasy because there is something else" may great matters, it is appropriate to use firmness. In dealing with small matters,

therefore give rise to excess. it is appropriate to use flexibility. Now in this hexagram, flexibility is in its

However, when excess arises from seeking confidence, the excess is then proper balance. Being in balance, it can act in accord with the time; there-

small. When excess arises, the wise act so as to make up for imbalance and fore, small matters turn out well. Firmness is out of place and unbalanced.

remedy defects. Being unbalanced, it cannot act in accord with the time, so it won't do for

In cases such as excessive deference in conduct, excessive grief in mourn- great matters.

228 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 62. Small Excess 229



The two yang lines in the center of the hexagram resemble the back of a Here one is doubly strong but unbalanced, and responds to weakness above,

bird; on both sides are two yin lines, which resemble two unfolded wings: like a bird that cannot take the lead and so instead flies off on high. Since

hence the image of a flying bird. If the bird flies upward, the wind opposes it one does not take precautions in excess, there will be pursuers attacking

and its cry becomes inaudible; if it flies downward, the wind goes along with one—how unfortunate!

it and its cry becomes audible.



■ 4 yang: No fault, meeting here without excess.

THE IMAGE: Thunder over a mountain—small excess. Genteel To go is dangerous; it is necessary to be cautious and not do it.

people are exceedingly deferential in conduct, exceedingly sad Always be correct.

in mourning, and exceedingly abstemious in consumption.

THE IMAGE: Meeting here without excess, the position is not

Deference is a remedy for arrogance; pity is a remedy for disregard; ab- right. It is dangerous to go, requiring caution; after all, it

stemiousness is a remedy for extravagance. The remedy uses excess to make cannot last.

up for lack, seeking only to attain equilibrium.

The third yang represents people who believe that their strength is correct



■ and consider themselves faultless; thus they do not take precautions and

First yin: The flying bird brings misfortune.

bring on attack. The fourth yang represents those whose position is not right

THE IMAGE: and who know themselves to be at fault. The fourth corresponds with the The flying bird brings misfortune.

Nothing can be done about it. first, thus "meeting here without excess." But only if the first comes and

obeys the fourth, so that the fourth is the leader, is there then no fault. If the

Here yin is not balanced correctly. It responds to the fourth yang, going up- fourth goes and obeys the first, so that the first becomes the leader, liking to

ward when it should go downward. Misfortune cannot be helped. go upward and not liking to go downward, then the first is unfortunate and

the fourth is in great danger too. Therefore it is necessary to be cautious and



■ not do it. It is imperative always to maintain the correctness according to

2 yin: Going past the grandfather, you meet the mother.

which it is not appropriate to go up but is appropriate to go down—then

Not reaching the ruler, you meet the administrator.

one can last.

There is no blame.



THE IMAGE: Not reaching the ruler—the administrator is not to ■ 5 yin: Dense clouds do not rain, coming from one's western be surpassed.

province. The prince shoots, catching the quarry in the den.

If one here wants to progress upward, one must pass the "grandfather" of

the fourth yin, to meet the "mother" of the fifth yin. But the two yins do not THE IMAGE: Dense clouds do not rain—they have already risen.

correspond, and the second yin is flexible, balanced, and upright, and is also

Here one is weak and aberrant, with no partner below. Though one may be

in a state of calm, so it does not go further up to the "ruler" of the fifth yin,

ruler of the land, no benefit extends to the populace. This is like clouds com-

only meeting the "administrator" of the fourth yin. Thus we know that even

ing from one's western province, not raining even though they are dense. So

though the fourth yin is an administrator, it really has virtue and certainly

this allows the "prince" symbolized by the fourth yin to preside over the

cannot be surpassed. The second and fourth have the same merit but differ-

wise people below, like one who shoots the quarry in the den, which does

ent positions, so it is reasonable that they should meet.

not require much effort. This is all because the fifth yin has already risen,

violating the correctness of descending when it is inappropriate to ascend.

■ 3 yang: One does not take precautions in excess, so pursuers



attack one. This is unfortunate. ■ Top yin: Passing by without meeting—the flying birds leave.

THE IMAGE: This is unfortunate. This is called calamity. Pursuers attack one. How unfortunate!



230 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 63. Settled 231



THE IMAGE: Passing by without meeting is because of to prevent it, the fire will get too hot and the water will all evaporate, or the

arrogance. water will boil over and put out the fire.



This line corresponds with the third yang below, but it is weak, and at the

culmination of action, just when the bird of the first yin has taken off in THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Settlement is successful; small

flight; therefore it doesn't meet the third yang, and after all passes by. All the matters succeed. It is beneficial to be correct; firmness and

birds have left; leaving the group and rising alone, one eventually dies. This flexibility are correct and in their places. At first it is

misfortune is because of being shot down by heaven; that is why it is called auspicious; flexibility gains balance. Stop in the end and there

calamity. In reality, one has called the calamity down upon oneself, so it is is confusion; the path reaches an impasse.

said to be because of arrogance.

If even small matters are successful, obviously great matters are also success-

When ancient tyrants lost their countries, this was also simply because

they tried to go higher when they should have lowered themselves. If they ful. Among the sixty-four hexagrams, only in this hexagram are the firm

and flexible lines all in place; hence it is correct.

have been willing to be "exceedingly deferential in conduct, exceedingly sad

The second yin's flexibility is in proper balance, as the main element of

in mourning, exceedingly abstemious in consumption," how would they

fire. When this is used to treat water, the water becomes usable. Therefore at

have turned out as they did?

first it is auspicious. However, if you think that once everything is settled you

can finally stop, you will surely bring on the "confusion" of the water boiling

over to extinguish the fire, or the fire getting too hot and evaporating the

water. You let either the fire go out or the water evaporate—therefore the



63. Settled path reaches an impasse.

THE IMAGE: Water over fire—settled. Developed people

fire below, water above

consider problems and prevent them.

Settlement is successful, even in small matters. It is bene-

ficial to be correct; otherwise there is good fortune at first When settlement has taken place, it seems as if there were no problems, but

but confusion in the end. problems will surely come along; so developed people consider them seri-

ously and prevent them. This is what the statement on the hexagram calls

Developed people deal with things by using deference to settle arrogance, beneficial correctness.

pity to settle disregard, frugality to settle extravagance. In all matters, when

balance is attained, then everything is settled. ■ First yang: Dragging the wheels—it is right that there

Because everything is settled, there is success, not only in great matters, be no problem.

but also in small matters. That is to say that everything turns out all right.

But when secure, do not forget danger; while you are alive, do not forget All six lines indicate considering problems and preventing them. Since the

death; in times of order, do not forget confusion—this is a true principle that hexagram stands for settlement, in the first line the settlement has already

applies to all times. taken place. The wheels are still skidding, yet you are ready to go; the tail is

Observe how a boat that does not capsize in rapids will turn over in a still wet, yet you are ready to cross the river—this stands for not forgetting

canal, how a horse that does not stumble on a winding mountain trail will that there will be something to do, even in times when there is nothing to

stumble on level ground: it is not because the canal and the level ground are do, preparing for it beforehand so as not to wind up in confusion. Therefore

more dangerous than the rapids and the mountain trail; calamity always it is right that there be no error.

comes from failure to anticipate it. There is no greater problem than lack of



preparedness. ■ 2 yin: A woman loses her protection. Let her not give chase:

Therefore it is always beneficial to be correct, in order to sustain success.

she will find it in seven days.

Otherwise, on first attaining settlement, everyone considers it auspicious and

thereby winds up by bringing on hopeless confusion. THE IMAGE: She will find it in seven days because of her

This is like water being boiled to make it drinkable; if you are not careful balanced course.

232 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 64. Unsettled 233



The fifth yang has positive strength balanced correctly and is in the position virtue, it is still not possible to accomplish this. The meaning of considering

of the leader. The second yin responds to this with flexibility that is balanced problems and preventing them here lies in sincerity, and is not seen in mate-

and correct. There are sure to be petty people who will try to come between rial things.

them and steal her protection, but the second yin is on a balanced course

and therefore remains calm and does not give chase. Only by not giving

chase does she spontaneously find it in seven days; if she gave chase, she ■ Top yin: Getting the head wet is dangerous.



would lose balance and not find it. The words "let her not give chase" indi-

THE IMAGE: Getting the head wet, how can one last long?

cate a subtle way of considering problems and preventing them.

This is weakness in extreme danger, at the end of settlement. This is what



■ was referred to as final stopping leading to confusion; this is one who is un-

3 yang: The emperor attacks barbarians and conquers them

able to consider problems and prevent them. It is like crossing a river and

after three years. Do not employ inferior people.

getting in over one's head—is it not dangerous?

THE IMAGE: Conquering them after three years, he is weary.



This is firm strength at the peak of clarity, the image of the emperor attack-

ing barbarians. However, it takes three years to conquer them; it is very

fatiguing, and even more so for those who are not so strong and clear- 64. Unsettled

minded. It is even worse if inferior people are employed, ruining the military,

water below, fire above

destroying the people, and plundering the nation. How can one but consider

these problems so as to prevent them? Being unsettled leads to success. A little fox, almost cross-

ing, gets its tail wet. Nothing is gained.



■ 4 yin: There are rags in fine cloth—be alert all the time.

Since there is settlement, there must be a condition of being unsettled, be-

cause there is basically no end to things. Since there is a state of being unset-

THE IMAGE: Being alert all the time, there is doubt.

tled, there must be settlement, because settlement originally derives from

Fine cloth eventually turns into rags; can we afford not to be alert? "Doubt" settling what was unsettled. Therefore there is a path to success therein.

means the thought taken to consider problems and prevent them. But if one wants to settle what is unsettled, this requires maturity, de-

cisiveness, and consistency from beginning to end. If one is like a little fox



■ 5 yang: The slaughtering of the ox in the neighborhood to the gained. about to cross a river holding back when it gets its tail wet, then nothing is

east is not as good as the ceremony in the neighborhood to the

west. The genuine get the blessings.

THE OVERALL JUDGMENT: Being unsettled leads to success,

THE IMAGE: The slaughtering of the ox in the neighborhood to insofar as flexibility is in balance. The little fox about to cross

the east is not as good as the timing of the neighborhood to has not yet gotten out. Getting its tail wet, it gains nothing, in

the west. The genuine get the blessings—good fortune comes that it does not continue to the end. Although out of place, the

in great measure. firm and the flexible correspond.



Fire is east, water is west. The lower trigram fully exerts the function of the The flexibility indicated by the fifth yin is in balance; this represents one

illumination offire to achieve settlement; this is like slaughtering an ox. The who is mature and decisive, consistent from beginning to end. "Not yet got-

fifth yang, with the strong and upright genuine virtue in the center of water, ten out" means not yet out of danger. At this time, properly relying on ma-

receives it as an offering, without expending any effort, like performing a ture and decisive ability and perceptivity, this spirit of continuity from start

ceremony. to finish, one will not be like the little fox who does not continue to the end.

Even if one has the virtue, without the proper timing it is impossible to Although they are not in their proper places, firmness and flexibility corre-

accomplish this; even if one has the timing, if one does not have genuine spond; this is why a state of being unsettled can lead to success.

234 THE BUDDHIST I CHING 64. Unsettled 235



THE IMAGE: Fire over water—unsettled. Developed people ride a boat across great rivers, not vainly relying on one's own power, then

carefully discern things and keep them in their places. danger can be resolved.



The natures of things must be discerned, and they must be put in their ap-

propriate places; therefore developed people are careful about this. For ex- ■ 4 yang: Correctness brings good results; regret vanishes.

ample, the nature of fire is to flame upward, and the nature of water is to Vigorously acting to conquer barbarians, in three years one

flow downward; these are things that must be distinguished. When fire has the reward of a great country.

flames up, it rises, whereas it should be below water to balance it. When

THE IMAGE: Correctness brings good results; regret vanishes.

water flows down, it descends, whereas it should rise to balance fire. This is

The aim is carried out.

an example of how things should be put in their places.

Water can control fire, and it can also extinguish fire; fire can balance

When strong but not excessive, one is like the sun rising, attaining the vir-

water, and it can also evaporate water. Also, water and fire can nurture

tue, ability, and position appropriate to the time of settlement. Therefore cor-

people, and they can also kill people. This one example can stand for all

rectness brings good results and regret vanishes. When one activates the

things, showing how it is necessary to distinguish with precision and clarity,

function of great illumination and conquers the "barbarians" of ignorance,

to assess their proper places.

in "three years" the work is accomplished, so there will be the reward of a

great country. At the time of settlement, the aim one cherished in seclusion

■ can be carried out. First yin: Getting the tail wet is humiliating.



THE IMAGE: Getting the tail wet, one still does not know the ■ 5 yin: Correctness brings good results; regret vanishes. li mit.

The illumination of developed people has truthfulness and

Here one is weak and in a low position, with nothing to balance worldly leads to good results.

cleverness, about to end up in an unsettled condition; this is shameful.

THE IMAGE: The radiance of the illumination of developed

Would one who knows that the momentum of the time is at an end be so

people leads to good results.

stubborn and contemptuous as to pretend to power?

Here flexibility in balance, the main element of illumination, is in the posi-



■ tion of leadership; this is fundamentally correct, fundamentally without re-

2 yang: Dragging the wheels, rectitude is auspicious.

gret. This is the illumination of developed people. This also stands for open-

THE IMAGE: The good outlook of the rectitude of the second ing oneself to be honest with the second yang, so that the illumination of

yang is because its activity is balanced. both mutually reflects; the whole world looks up to this, and it surely leads

to good results.

Being strong but not excessive, thereby proceeding while dragging the

wheels, is the right way to go on attaining settlement. Because of being cen-

tered, one can act correctly and see that balance and rectitude are not two ■ Top yang: There is sincerity in drinking wine, without fault.

But if one becomes totally immersed, having faith ceases to be

principles.

right.



■ THE IMAGE: Becoming totally immersed in drinking wine is 3 yin: While unsettled, it bodes ill to go on an expedition,

but it is beneficial to cross great rivers. also not knowing proper measure.



The truthfulness leading to good results in the fifth yin is the settlement of

THE IMAGE: It bodes ill to go on an expedition while unsettled,

the world; therefore the top yang preserves what has been accomplished,

because the position is inappropriate.

and has sincerity in drinking wine—this is sharing pleasure with the people,

Here yin is not balanced correctly; both ability and virtue are inferior, so it a course of action that is blameless.

bodes ill to proceed. However, it is about time to get out of danger; if one can But the way developed people relate to the world is that they do not forget 236 THE BUDDHIST 1 CHING



danger when secure, they do not forget death while alive, and they do not Key for Identifying the Hexagrams

forget disorder in times of order; if they gave themselves up entirely to en-

joying the pleasures of peace, and had no sense of striving and caution, that

would be like becoming immersed in drinking wine. I am sure they would TRIGRAMS

certainly lose the happiness of the present, because they did not know Ch'ien Chen K'an Ken K'un Sun Li Tui

UPPER



proper measure. I ~ — LOWER s - - - - - — Proper measure is like the four seasons of nature, which cannot exceed--I



their bounds. This is also called the limit. The weakness of the first yin is that Chi'en 5 1 34 26 11 9 14 43 doubt is excessive; so it is referred to as still not knowing the limit. The ada-

mancy of the top yang is that faith is excessive; so it is referred to as not



knowing proper measure. Chen 25 51 3 27 24 42 21 17

Knowing limits and knowing proper measure, the unsettled can be set-



tled, and having attained settlement, the settled can be preserved. K'an 6 40 29 4

7 59 64 47



Ken

33 62 39 52 15 53 56 31



K'un 12 16 8 23 2 20 35 45



Sun

44 32 48 18 46 57 50 28



Li 13 55 63 22 36 37 30 49



Tai 60 10 54 41 19 61 38 58





