THE HUMAN DESIGN SYSTEM




The Complete Rave I’Ching

Positions Gates Themes Crosses Lines Commentaries Positions Gates Themes Crosses Lines Commentaries

Ra Uru Hu Ra Uru Hu





Jovian Archive Corporation

The Complete Rave I’Ching written and compiled by Ra Uru Hu. Techni-cal support and programming by Erik Memmert. Portions of this text were adapted from The Human Design System 1992 and from from The Book of Letters 1994 by Ra Uru Hu. The Human Design System and the Global Incarnation Index are protected by Copyright. Protected under the Berne Convention. All Rights Reserved.

© Copyright Jovian Archive Corporation 2001.

English Edition Printed in the United States and Great Britain.

No part of this publication may be reproduced, transmitted, transcribed, stored in a retrieval system, or translated into any other language or com-puter language in whole or in part, in any form or by any means, whether it be electronic, mechanical, magnetic, optical, manual or otherwise without the prior consent of Jovian Archive Corporation.

Jovian Archive Corporation www.jovianarchive.com office@jovianarchive.com





Forward




August 3, 2001 Diessen am Ammersee, Germany



In 2000 after 13 years of introducing the Human Design Sys-

tem, it was time to focus on international standards for edu-

cation. The first step was to respect the needs of the student.

When I returned to Europe in 2000, I began immediately to

work on this edition of the Rave I’Ching with Erik Memmert.

Erik’s programming skills have made the uniform lay-

out/translation process translator friendly. This English edition

will be followed by German, Italian and Spanish editions. The

Complete Rave I’Ching is just that; a complete reference

work for Human Design students and professionals alike. It

contains all the data one would want, combining both Human

Design and Global Incarnation Index information. Each Gate

is thematically described and the Incarnation Crosses of

each Gate are listed and graphically presented. Each line is

provided in its original form along with additional commen-

tary. This Complete Rave I’Ching is now the standard text of

the IHDS, the International Human Design Schools. I want to

acknowledge the contribution of many to the fruition of this

project.



Love Yourself



Ra Uru Hu



The Complete Rave I’Ching



Index



Q Gate 25 Gate 46 Q ‡ ‡ Gate 17 Gate 18 Gate 21 Gate 48 Gate 51 Gate 57 Gate 42 Gate 32 Gate 3 Gate 50



‚ Gate 27 ˆ Gate 28 ‚ Gate 24 Gate 2 Gate 23 Gate 8 ˆ Gate 44 Gate 1 Gate 43 Gate 14 Gate 20 Gate 34



ƒ ‰ ƒ Gate 16 Gate 35 Gate 45 Gate 12 ‰ Gate 9 Gate 5 Gate 26 Gate 11 Gate 15 Gate 10



„ Gate 52 Gate 39 Gate 53 Gate 62 Š Gate 58 Gate 38 Gate 54 Gate 61 Gate 56 Gate 60



… Gate 31 Gate 33 Gate 7 Gate 4 Gate 29 ‹ Gate 41 ‹ Gate 19 Gate 13 Gate 49 Gate 30 Gate 59 Gate 55



† Œ † Gate 40 Gate 64 Œ Gate 37 Gate 63 Gate 47 Gate 22 Gate 6 Gate 36

1 THE GATE OF SELF-EXPRESSION Channel 8-1 Inspiration The creative Role Model Harmonic Gate 8 Holding Together ˆ 44 1 w 43 Center G v ˆ Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 13° 15' 00" ˆ - 18° 52' 30" ˆ ˆ



This is the yangest (six yang lines) of the Hexagrams. It is a deep need to express oneself. This gate demands attention. This is potentially an extremely creative gate but this is not a creativity rooted in awareness but in its unique direction. Individual expression, like individual insight can only be fulfilled through interaction with others. The role of this creativity is, 'doing your own thing' and when and if the creativity attracts attention, it may become an example for a new direction for others. Regardless of this potential, the drive to express one's individuality to others isn't always appreciated. This gate and its relationship to its harmonic gate 8:Holding Together, can best be expressed through the relationship between the 'Artist' (1) and the 'Agent' (8). When in harmony, this channel contributes creative direction to the collective. Tension can arise in this relationship when the Artist wants to be their own agents or when the Agent knows better than the Artist.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SPHINX (4) SELF-EXPRESSION DEFIANCE (2)





1





THE CREATIVE 1





CREATION AS A PRIMAL FORCE. THE ENERGY POTENTIAL TO MANIFEST



INSPIRATION WITHOUT LIMITATION.





66 Í p Clear assessment of creative value. Clarity in creative expression. Objectivity É s The risk that subjective appraisal will result in disappointment and creative frustra-17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" tion. Subjectivity in self-expression that may lead to creative frustration.





55 Ä p Mars exalted for its powerful ego endurance. The power and drive to stay with the The energy to at-creative process. tract society Ç s Uranus in detriment, where eccentricity can handicap endurance. Eccentricity that 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" though attractive will limit the drive.





44 Aloneness as the The tension of inner light. The tension of inner light. Í p The Earth exalted as the symbol of personal perspective manifested outside of in-medium of creativ-fluence, where the potential magic of inspiration is diluted. Creativity that must de-ity velop outside of influence. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Å s Where the potential magic of inspiration is diluted. The need to influence that aban-



dons aloneness and limits creativity.



33 Ä p Mars exalted as the symbol of the profound need for self-expression. The deep The energy to sus-need for self-expression. tain creative work Í s Material forces can disrupt creativity and lead to overambition. Materialism disrupts 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" creativity.



22 Ã p Venus exalted as a symbol of beauty. The required harmony between established Love is light values and ideals that enriches inspiration. Self-expression conditioned by ideals 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" and values.

Ä s Desires and passions have their place but not at the expense of Creation. Self-

expression limited by desires and passions.



11 Á p The Moon exalted as a symbol of adaption. Time is everything. Self-expression Creation is inde-which has its special timing. pendent of will Ç s Instability leads to distortion. Here, patience is a virtue and revolution a vice. Crea-13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" tive instability unless there is patience.



11

2 THE GATE OF HIGHER KNOWING Channel 2-14 The Beat The design of being the keeper of keys Harmonic Gate 14 Possession in Great Measure ‚ 24 2 w Center G v 23 ‚ Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 13° 15' 00" ‚ - 18° 52' 30" ‚



This is the most receptive (six yin lines) of all the hexagrams. This gate is the seat of the 'Driver'. The ancients would refer it as the 'Higher Self'. It is important to remember and the Gods love a Joke, that the Self is unaware. It is a mechanical function of the vehicle, holding us together in the illusion of our separateness and giving us our direction. This is the potential to continue evolving which finds expression and manifestation through the three other Sphinx gates.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SPHINX (2) THE DRIVER DEFIANCE





2





THE RECEPTIVE 2





RECEPTIVITY AS THE PRIMAL BASE THROUGH WHICH ANY RESPONSE IS



DETERMINED. THE ROOT OF ACTION.





66 Fixation Unable or unwilling to see the whole picture. Unable or unwilling to see the whole picture. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" Â p With Mercury exalted, less negative, though the intellect becomes absorbed in con-



stant rationalization. Higher knowing that is extremely narrow in its receptivity.



Æ s The need for security may distort awareness to its ultimate perversion, destructive-



ness. The Higher Self absorbed with the mundane and the need for security.





55 Â p The strategist with Mercury exalted. Reasoned management of resources. Higher Intelligent applica-knowing as a gift for strategy. tion Í s The inability to share responsibility or recognize the abilities of others. Higher know-17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" ing as an exclusively individual and selfish process.





44 Secretiveness More than modesty, the ability to preserve harmony through discretion. More than modesty, the ability to preserve harmony through discretion. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Ã p The higher goal transcends personal acclaim. The team player, acknowledged as



the leader but never the captain. Where higher knowing does not have to be ex-pressed to be recognized.



Ä s Loose lips sink ships. The unquenchable fire of the ego engenders enmity. The



inability to keep silent when the opportunity arises for expression.





33 Patience The teacher that never stops being a student. The teacher that never stops being a student. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Å p Dedication to a lifetime of receptivity with the maturity to accept that the process



never ends. When connected permanently to Gate 14 through the Beat Channel, rewards for services rendered. The recognition that receptivity is a lifelong process.



Ç s For the revolutionary patience is a vice. Higher knowing that cannot wait and de-



mands expression.





22 Genius Unconscious and unlearnable alignment of stimulus and response. The nat Unconscious and unlearnable alignment of stimulus and response. The natu- u- 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" ral. ral.



Æ p The inner strength to focus and realize. A natural gift for unlearnable knowing. Ä s Genius as madness. Knowledge exclusively as power for the enhancement of the



ego. The delusion that knowledge is power.





11 Intuition Sensitivity to disharmony and atrophy. Sensitivity to disharmony and atrophy. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Ã p The importance of aesthetics whether inborn or acquired. Higher knowing through



aesthetics.



Ä s The assertion of ego in spite of wisdom. The urge for action that will ignore the wis-



dom of the Higher Self.





22





3 THE GATE OF ORDERING Channel 3-60 Mutation Energy which fluctuates and initiates Harmonic Gate 60 Limitation Q 42 v 3 w 27 Center Sacral Q Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 26° 22' 30" Q - 02° 00' 00" ‚



It is in the Sacral that the potential for mutation is empowered. This is a gate of confused energy, confused in the sense that it is unsubstantiated, like the individual insight, it is unique and has to find its form. Mutation can oper-ate in two basic ways. The simplest is the direct mutation through reproduction. The Sacral is our center of fertility. It is associated in biology with the Ovaries in a woman and the Testes in a man. The potential of mutation is deeply connected to our reproductive process and is an essential ingredient for our continued survival. The 3rd gate not only generates potential mutation but it determines what genetic material we inherit from our parents' genetic pool. This is Generational mutation. The second form of mutation is through the fulfillment of the Knowing circuit. Individual expression that through example changes and mutates those who have contact with them, this is Cultural mutation.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF LAWS MUTATION WISHES





3





DIFFICULTY AT THE BEGINNING 3





THE FUNDAMENTAL CHALLENGE OF INITIATION IS TO TRANSCEND CON-



FUSION AND ESTABLISH ORDER .





66 Surrender The ultimate maturity to recognize when struggle is futile. The ultimate maturity to recognize when struggle is futile. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" À p As its light sustains, so life goes on. The innate acceptance that ordering is a proc-



ess, not a problem.



É s As darkness overwhelms, life can seem worthless leading to depression and the



sense of hopelessness. The overwhelming power of confused energy can lead to depression.





55 Victimization When actions designed to overcome confusion alienate others. When actions d esigned to overcome confusion alienate others. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Ä p The courage to stand by one's convictions. The unique energy of individuality to



withstand confusion.



Í s The Earth in detriment, where victimization leads to appeasement and suffering.



Confused energy which is dominated by the ordering power of others.





44 Charisma Innate quality which attracts valued guidance. Innate quality which attracts valued guidance. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" È p Physic attunement that magnetizes nurturing. A psychic energy which attracts nour-



ishment and ensures ordering.



Ä s Mars in detriment, where the demands of ego lead to rejection. Confused energy



that needs nourishment but is generally rejected.





33 Survival The ability to recognize and distinguish between fertile and sterile in their The ability to recognize and distinguish between fertile and sterile in thei r 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" various manifestations. various manifestations.



Ã p In reproduction, the ability to choose the best mate. An innate knowing of what is



sterile and what is fertile where the mutation is specifically biological and dependent on collaboration with others.



É s The perverse denial of evolutionary standards. An innate contrariness which refuses



to mutate.





22 Immaturity The unrestrained acceptance of guidance. The unrestrained acceptance of guidance. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" Ä p The unrelenting energy for growth will eventually triumph. The energy and potential



for individual mutation.



Ç s Internal instability which both accepts and rejects authority simultaneously. Energy



and potential that is conditioned by others leading to instability.





11 Synthesis Difficulties can be only overcome when all the pertinent factors have been Difficulties can be only overcome when all the pertinent factors have been 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" analyzed. analyzed.



Í p The understanding that confusion is natural and must always exist before clarity can



be achieved. An innate knowing that order will emerge from confusion.



Â s The reliance on intellect at the expense of intuition can lead to unnecessary frustra-



tion. The inability to know that order will emerge and the drive to find this knowing elsewhere.





33





4 THE GATE OF FORMULIZATION Channel 63-4 Logic A design of mental ease mixed with doubt Harmonic Gate 63 After Completion … 7 v 4 29 Center Ajna w … Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 18° 52' 30" … - 24° 30' 00" … …



This is a gate of good fortune. It is clear that the most grounded path is based on logic. To use logic, that is to be able to substantiate things in fact, protects one from misjudgment. And this gate through the Understanding cir-cuit is related to the Channel of Judgment. The real difference lies in the frequency. Splenic awareness operates in the now, but the mind's frequency is over all time. The pressure of a doubt or suspicion can last a lifetime. The I'Ching name for this gate is Youthful Folly. The potential is to have an answer to the doubt. A Stream of Aware-ness has four stages in its process. An answer, a formula is only a potential. Many answers are sheer foolishness. A formula is the beginning of a logical awareness. It is worthy of remembering that an answer is not necessarily a solution or a fact.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EXPLANATION (3) FORMULIZATION REVOLUTION (2)





4





YOUTHFUL FOLLY 4





THE ENERGY TO BEGUILE AND SUCCEED DESPITE IGNORANCE. FREE-



DOM FROM RETRIBUTION.





66 Excess Repeated and conscious abuse of norms will not escape discipline. Repeated and conscious abuse of norms will not escape discipline. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Â p The development through experience of techniques to apply self-restraint. The po-



tential in a logical process to recognize when the understanding is not complete and have the patience to wait out the process.



Ä s The gall to accept punishment as the price of excess. Despite recognizing the in-



completeness a lack of patience with the process.





55 Seduction Allowing others to assume responsibility as a shield against potential pun- Allowing others to assume responsibility as a shield against potential pu n- 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" ishment. ishment.



Å p Unearned reward and recognition. The potential to succeed through the under-



standing of others.



É s A life of lip service to antiquated and unsatisfying values. Cynicism. The potential for



cynicism that comes with always having to acknowledge the understanding of oth-ers.





44 The liar Role playing as an art form. The actor. Role playing as an art form. The actor. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" À p Fantasy protects and nurtures a sense of purpose and reason no matter how mis-



guided. The potential to find or illustrate the formulas through fantasy.



Æ s Time always brings humiliation. The potential danger to see the fantasy as fact.





33 Irresponsibility The general refusal to apply oneself diligently when one can get by with The ge neral refusal to apply oneself diligently when one can get by with 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" much less effort. much less effort.



Ã p Where art is more valued then the artist. The potential to enjoy the formulas with no



regard to their practical application.



É s The rationalization of irresponsibility as an act of refocalization. The potential to jus-



tify such a process in order to maintain it.





22 Acceptance The recognition of limitation in oneself and others leads to tolerance and the The recognition of limitation in oneself and others leads to tolerance and the 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" suspension of judgment. suspension of judgment.



Á p The glorification of feelings. The mother which always pardons the errant child. The



potential to recognize that not everyone can understand,



Ä s The assertion of the ego at the expense of others' failures. The potential to take ad-



vantage of the lack of understanding in others.





11 Pleasure Ultimate pleasure cannot be achieved without perfect timing. Ultimate pleasure cannot be achieved without perfect timing. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" Á p The instinct to know the right moment and circumstances where pleasure is re-



warded and not punished. The potential to recognize that there is a natural timing to the understanding process.



Í s Timing is not a product of discipline. Exaggerated self-discipline leads to the abuse



of pleasure. The potential to recognize but the urge to force the timing.





44





5 THE GATE OF FIXED RHYTHMS Channel 15-5 Rhythm The design of being in the flow Harmonic Gate 15 Modesty ‰ 9 5 w 26 Center Sacral v ‰ Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 11° 22' 30" ‰ - 17° 00' 00" ‰



Tantric channels are about the empowerment of the Self. No other channel in Design has such significance. Being in the Flow is a universal mechanism and binds all life forms together in the 'rhythm of Life'.

The 5th gate is the power to fix the pattern. It is the gate of habits, of daily rythm and tempo. This is not about es-tablishing the pattern through awareness. This is a mechanical gate. The role of awareness is to not identify with concepts that try to alter the natural pattern. If it is natural to eat at 7 o'clock in the morning, nothing should be allowed to interfere with that pattern.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS (4) HABITS SEPARATION (2)





5





WAITING 5





THE FUNDAMENTAL ATTUNEMENT TO NATURAL RHYTHMS. WAITING AS



AN ACTIVE STATE OF AWARENESS .





66 Yielding Waiting is never free from pressure, physical or mental and is often punct Waiting is never free from pressure, physical or mental and is often p unctu- u- 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" ated by the unexpected. ated by the unexpected.



È p The growth of awareness that comes with bending to the universal flow. Accepting



that in one's fixed rhythm despite the pressures, growth will be empowered, and often through the unexpected. No polarity.



s There is no planet in detriment; each in its way, given the power of this position, will



yield to the inevitable. No planet in detriment.





55 Joy Waiting as an aspect of enlightenment. Waiting as an aspect of enlightenment. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Ã p To remain calm as the ultimate aesthetic and thus recognize the inner meaning of



being. The power to be calm and to find one's place in the flow.



É s Joy dismissed as an illusion, waiting as a failure. Disillusionment with recognizing



one's place in the flow.





44 The hunter Waiting as a guarantee of survival. Waiting as a guarantee of survival. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Ç p The creative genius to transform the most passive experience into active achieve-



ment. The power to make the best of one's fixed rhythm.



À s The vanity of a personality so strong that unwilling to hide behind a blind, threatens



its very survival. The drive to deny one's own rhythms with predictable costs.





33 Compulsiveness The fear engendered by the sense of helplessness resulting in unnecessary The fear engendered by the sense of helplessness resulting in unnecessary 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" stress and activity. stress and activity.



È p Compulsiveness can be limited in its negative effect through flights of imagination.



Though still stressful, they do not lead to action. A surrender to the limitations of a fixed rhythm through the empowerment of the imagination.



Á s The Moon cannnot stand still. Unable to surrender and at odds with one's own



rhythm.





22 Inner peace The ability to ignore the temptation to take premature action. The ability to ignore the temptation to take premature action. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Ã p The gift of maintaining composure through idealizing tranquility. The power to be



comfortable with one's rhythm.



É s Inner peace experienced as stagnation. The drive for power that is constrained by



the fixed rhythm.





11 Perseverance If the captain must, he goes down with the ship. If the captain must, he goes down with the ship. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Ä p Courage in the face of adversity. The power to maintain one's own rhythm.



Í s The premature and often disastrous urge to cut one's losses. Weakness in maintain-



ing one's rhythm when challenged.





55





6 THE GATE OF FRICTION Channel 59-6 Mating A design focused on reproduction Harmonic Gate 59 Dispersion † 47 v 6 w 46 Center Solar Plexus † Circuit Defence

Astrologic Position 22° 37' 30" † - 28° 15' 00" † †



This is the most complex gate of the Solar Plexus and the most difficult in terms of finding the awareness within the wave. Not only is it a powerful motor with the energy for producing life itself but it also contains the awareness possiblities of all three Streams of Emotional awareness; Feeling, Emoting, and Sensitivity. Where the 50th gate is the awareness of our Personal Defense Reflex, Conflict is our evolved Genetic Defense Reflex. There is no survival for Humanity unless it continues to reproduce. From the perspective of our genes, this is our only purpose, to maintain and continue the genetic pool. In our biology, the 6th gate is associated with our PH balance. It is PH that keeps our outside/outside and our inside/inside. It establishes the boundary of the body. Throughout most of our history, this has been a mechanical process. The possibility of awareness in this gate could transform the nature of all of Humanities intimacy. Who is in and who is out, who can penetrate or be penetrated is the work of this gate. However, as an energy, and this is its general state, it always confines intimacy to a hope and pain cy-cle.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EDEN (3) CONFLICT THE PLANE (2)





6





CONFLICT 6





THE FUNDAMENTAL DESIGN COMPONENT OF PROGRESS. THE LAW THAT



GROWTH CANNOT EXIST WITHOUT FRICTION.





66 The peacemaker The discipline and integrity of a superior force to unilaterally cease conflict to The discipline and integrity of a superior force to unilaterally cease conflict to 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" permit surrender and survival of its foe. permit surrender and survival of its foe.



Â p The highest form of reason is that life is sacred. The emotional power to end conflict



tempered by feelings and sensitivity to others.



Ã s The peacemaker whose actions are just but whose terms are unacceptable. The



emotional power to end conflict but only after one's conditions have been satisfied.





55 Arbitration The faith derived from analytical diligence and emotional control that permits The faith derived from analytical diligence and emotional control that permits 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" a higher authority to judge a conflict.. a higher authority to judge a conflict



Ã p Harmony furthered through the avoidance of direct conflict. Sensitivity to conflict can



lead to the avoidance of intimacy.



Á s Where a party to arbitration sees itself as the best possible judge and will only ac-



cept judgement if it is the victor. Insensitivity to the concerns of others in a conflict.





44 Triumph A position on natural and unchallengeable power. A position on natural and unchallengeable power. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" À p The charity and wisdom that must come with victory and the movement towards



new horizons.. The power of emotions to dominate a relationship.



É s The conqueror and purger. The lack of emotional control that is destructive in rela-



tionships.





33 Allegiance The ability to secure support and create strength out of a weak position. The ability to secure support and create strength out of a weak position. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" When connected to the harmonic Gate 59, mating that results in conception. Whe n connected to the harmonic Gate 59, mating that results in conception.



È p The destruction of old forms through union; either mundane, as above, sexual un-



ion, or exalted as universalization. The depth of feelings that can enrich union and intimacy.



É s The rejection of allegiance as submission to established order. Sensitivity to controls



which may eventually reject intimacy.





22 The guerilla The ability to maximize an inferior position through timely contact and with- The ability to maximize an inferior position through timely contact and wit h- 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" drawal. drawal.



Ã p Aesthetic sensitivity and mental detail can find the weakest point. The sensitivity to



find the weakest point in a conflict and to exploit it emotionally.



Ä s The kamikaze, striking but moot. A lack of sensitivity that blunders into conflicts.





11 Retreat The realization that wasting one's resources against overwhelming odds is The realization that wasting one's resources against overwhelming odds is 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" not courage but folly. not courage but folly.



É p The power of regeneration that can embrace retreat as a phase and not a failure.



The emotional stability to accept conflict.



Â s The inferiority complex, where retreat is experienced as personal weakness. Emo-



tional instability in times of conflict.





66





7 THE GATE OF THE ROLE OF THE SELF Channel 31-7 The Alpha For 'good' or 'bad' the design of leadership Harmonic Gate 31 Influence … 33 v 7 4 Center G w … Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 13° 15' 00" … - 18° 52' 30" … …



The 7th gate is part of the Sphinx Cross. It is a gate of logical direction. This is the gate of the role of the Self in interaction. The Channel of the 'Alpha' is a design of Leadership. It is the Understanding Circuit which leads us into the future. It is a rule of all forms, that only logic, only the tested and established patterns, can be followed with any certainty. Below in the line keynotes, it is clear how the nature of these leadership roles are dtermined. What is significant, is that the Self is unaware. The role is genetic and mechanical and it does not respond to a concept of role. An Authoritarian will always be one, regardless. However, the conditioning power of this gate is enormous and has had profound effects on our collective history. The 31 may have the Influence but the direction and role of the 7, is all too often the power behind the throne. Bill Clinton with his 31 and Hillary Clinton with 7. 2 or Nehru's 31 and Indira Ghandis' 7. 2 are classic examples of democratic role conditioning.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SPHINX (3) INTERACTION MASKS (2)





7





THE ARMY 7





THE POINT OF CONVERGENCE. BY DESIGN, THE NEED FOR LEADERSHIP



TO GUIDE AND ORDER SOCIETY.





66 The administrator The ability to share and justly apportion power. The ability to share and justly apportion power. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" Â p The power to communicate the frameworks of responsibility. The capacity of the Self



through its role to communicate responsibility.



Ç s The bureaucrat whose lust for power eventually destabilizes the organisation. The



role of the Self to seek power through the communication of responsibility.





55 The general Leadership whose authority must be absolute and is sanctioned by society in Leadership whose authority must be absolute and is sanctioned by society in 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" times of crisis. times of crisis.



Ã p The gift of attracting loyalty necessary in harmonizing the potential of society. The



capacity of the Self through its role to attract loyalty.



È s The commander isolated from his troops and obsessed with victory at any price.



The lack of loyalty when the Self insists on isolation.





44 The abdicator The willingness to accept the judgment of the people and/or the rule of law. The willingness to accept the judgment of the people and/or the rule of law. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" À p The grace and wisdom to step down for the benefit of the whole. The capacity of the



Self to accept the judgment of others.



Ç s One who must be forced from power by overwhelming opposition. The refusal of the



Self to accept the judgement of others.





33 The anarchist The rejection of any institutionalized order. The rejection of any institutionalized o rder. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Á p The constant need for change no matter what the prevailing conditions. The drive of



the Self to express many roles.



Â s The nihilist. The capacity of the Self to deny value in any role.





22 The democrat The ability to lead by serving the will of the majority. The ability to lead by serving the will of the majority. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" È p The application of universally accepted systems. When connected through the Al-



pha Channel to Gate 31 Influence, the potential for widespread and revolutionary effect on society. The capacity of the Self to lead when chosen.



Â s Elitism and denegation by democrats of democracy. The capacity of the Self once



chosen to feel superior to those who chose them.





11 Authoritarian The iron hand both enlightened and despotic. The iron hand both enlightened and despotic. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Ã p Venus exalted, as in the basic values and rules imposed on a child. The capacity of



the Self to guide with authority.



Â s The distorted intellect that believes only it knows best. The capacity of the Self to



insist that its authority is best.





77





8 THE GATE OF CONTRIBUTION Channel 8-1 Inspiration The creative Role Model Harmonic Gate 1 The Creative ‚ 23 v 8 20 Center Throat w ‚ Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 24° 30' 00" ‚ - 00° 07' 30" ƒ



The 8th gate is a mirror to the function of the 23rd gate of Assimilation. Both are part of the Knowing circuit, both have the ability to express the possibilities of individuality. The 23rd gate says, 'I know' and the 8th gate says, 'I know I can'. This is the gate of the individual contribution to the whole. Imagine that a group of tourists are lost on an excursion. The 8th gate does not lead either logically ('I think, it's that way' 31: Influence) nor Abstractly ('I re-member, it was this way' 33: Retreat), it can only act as an example. The 8th gate stands up, gets everybody's attention and says, 'I know, I can find the way' and leaves. Those who wish to take the chance and follow are wel-comed and if no one takes heed, the knower will go on alone. The contribution of the Individual can never be pressed onto the collective. It would only lead to resistance.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONTAGEN (2) CONTRIBUTION UNCERTAINTY





8





HOLDING TOGETHER 8





THE BASIC WORTH REALIZED IN CONTRIBUTING INDIVIDUAL EFFORTS TO



GROUP GOALS.





66 Communion The certainty which grows out of harmony. The certainty which grows out of harmony. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ã p The awareness of patterns that ensures correct timing. The gift of knowing when to



contribute creatively.



É s Doubt, which may engender regret even in the most ideal circumstances. Uncer-



tainty in timing and regret despite circumstances.





55 Dharma Holding together does not exclude eventual separation. Successful union, after a Holding together does not exclude eventual separation. Successful union, after a 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" proper term will encourage separation. The fledgling once mature is expected to proper term will encourage separation. The fledgling once mature is expected to



leave the nest. This is right action which does not harm the integrity of the union. leave the nest. This is right action which does not harm the integrity of the union.



Å p The teacher. Contribution as part of a process of sharing that accepts and expects



limitation, exemplified in teaching.



À s The parent that cannot let go of the child, understanding only, that its authority is



being challenged. Contribution as an end in itself that neither accepts nor expects limitation, exemplified by the parent that cannot let go of the child.





44 Respect The gift of naturally recognizing the contributions of others and particularly, The gift of naturally recognizing the contributions of others and particularly, 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" the acknowledgement of those who lead by example. the ackn owledgement of those who lead by example.



Å p The uncompromizing drive to assimilate. The drive to contribute and be an example



to and for others.



Â s In a group where limitation is transcended, reason alone cannot predict individual



worth. As an example, the acknowledged leader of an athletic team is not necessar-ily the most talented. A gift for contribution that is not conditioned by limitations.





33 The phoney The acceptance of the style and not the substance of communal actions. The acceptance of the style and not the substance of communal a ctions. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Á p The perfected and rarely detected superficial intimacy. The example as an expres-



sion through style, not substance.



Æ s A shallowness that underestimates others and overestimates its own ability to con-



tinue its deception without detection. An overreliance and unfounded confidence in style.





22 À p The highest good, to serve selflessly. The potential to be an example through unsel-Service fish expression. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Í s The earth in detriment, where reward is a prerequisite of service. The willingness to



be an example for a price.





11 Honesty The truthful acceptance of limitation and re--cognition that it can only be tra The truthful acceptance of limitation and re cognition that it can only be tran- n- 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" scended through sharing. scended through sharing.



È p The awareness that the whole is always greater than the sum of its parts. Knowing



that creative expression must be honestly communicated and shared.



Â s Withdrawal. The fear of losing individuality in a group environment. The design to



share creativity at the expense of individuality.





88





9 THE GATE OF FOCUS Channel 9-52 Concentration A design of determination Harmonic Gate 52 Keeping Still (Mountain) ‰ 34 v 9 5 Center Sacral w ‰ Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 05° 45' 00" ‰ - 11° 22' 30" ‰



This gate has a direct relationship to the 62nd gate in the Throat center. The 62nd is the Preponderance of the Small and the 9th gate is the Taming Power of the Small. These are the two detail gates and both are in the Un-derstanding Circuit. Both are mechanical functions. The power of the 9th gate is determination. The power to maintain the focus. When the 52nd gate is defined to this power, the restlessness is transformed into a channeled energy and the depression disappears. It is this power to focus that underlines the importance of this gate. The entire logic system demands continued experimentation and testing, repetition and practice. It is this power to focus which empowers the entire process.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PLANNING (4) FOCUS IDENTIFICATION (2)





9





THE TAMING POWER OF THE 9



SMALL





POTENTIAL CAN BE FULFILLED THROUGH DETAILED ATTENTION TO ALL



PERTINENT ASPECTS .





66 Gratitude The joy which comes with accepting small rewards for small victories. The joy which comes with accepting small rewards for small victories. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Á p The Moon exalted, where the power of the small nourishes right perspective. The



power to enjoy the concentrating process.



É s No single step is of value until the journey is over. The energy for expression that



cannot find joy in the process until it is complete.





55 Faith The trust that detailed adherence will lead to fulfillment. The trust that detailed adherence will lead to fulfi llment. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Å p Loyalty to the letter of the law. The power to focus and bring value to concentration.



Í s Like the mystery of God, doubt engendered through the perceived illogic of a proc-



ess. Where the lack of power to concentrate leads to doubt.





44 Dedication Regardless of the pressures or stress the disciplined attention to detail. Regardless of the pressures or stress the disciplined attention to detail. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Á p Right action that leads inevitably to actualization. The power to act on the potential



of the focus.



Ä s The persistent urge to want to skip essential steps. The drive for action that ignores



the details.





33 The straw that The overlooked minor element that always predetermines failure. The overlooked minor element that always predetermines failure. Í p The use of force to temporarily overcome impediments. The loss of power through breaks the camel's the failure to focus. back À s Persistent force that saps vitality and turns molehills into mountains. The power to 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" turn a focus into an obsession.





22 É p Collaboration with others to temper frustration. The power to collaborate with others Misery loves com-in focusing. pany Å s The overwhelming need for expansion can lead to errors in judgment, missed op-06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" portunities and depression. The drive to collaborate that will miss the focus.





11 Sensibility A balanced and responsible approach to problem solving. A balanced and responsible approach to problem solving. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" É p The ability to avoid frustration through the creation of new forms. The power in fo-



cusing to create new forms.



Ä s After a hasty and frustrating search the urge to kick in the door when the key is in



your pocket. The power to generate that will lose its focus.





99

10 T HE GATE OF THE BEHAVIOUR OF THE SELF Channel 10-34 Exploration A design of following one's convictions 10-57 Perfected Form A design of survival 11 20-10 Awakening v 10 w 58 A design of commitment to higher principles ‰

Harmonic Gates 34 The Power of the Great

57 The Gentle 20 Contemplation

Center G

Circuit Centering

Astrologic Position 28° 15' 00" ‰ - 03° 52' 30" Š



This is the most complex gate that opens up out of the G center. Out of the 10th gate, three channels can be formed. The 10th gate is a behavioural bridge which links the Centering circuit to the Knowing circuit. It is the po-tential behaviour of the Self. Before this behaviour can manifest, it must be guided spontaneously by the Intuition (57) from the Splenic Awareness, and empowered by the Sacral (34) and then it can manifest through the Throat in the now (20). Treading is a gate of the Vessel, a gate of Love. It is the 10th gate which ensures the perfection of our form and its survival and the conviction which guides it, is the Love of Living, of being alive. The complexity of this gate can also be seen on its effects on others. This is a gate of powerful conditioning influence. How the planetary collective behaves is determined by this gate. Awakening is not possible without a fixed behaviour. The Li. The only way is surrender to the privilege of exploring life in a self-conscious form.

The Channel of Awakening (20-10) is the oldest of our three mystical possibilities. The first and foremost initiation is to recognize who we are. This channel is perfectly illustrated by the inscription over the Oracle of Delphi, 'Know thyself'. Awakening is not a commitment to becoming something, it is a commitment to being oneself. One cannot know what is incomplete. The mystical love of this Vessel gate, is the love of Self as it is, in the now. This is Awak-eness.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE VESSEL OF LOVE (4) BEHAVIOUR PREVENTION (2)





10





TREADING 10





THE UNDERLYING CODE OF BEHAVIOUR WHICH ENSURES SUCCESSFUL



INTERACTION DESPITE CIRCUMSTANCES.





66 The role model The perfect expression of the norms through action rather than words. The perfect expression of the norms through action rather than words. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" É p The constant example that refocuses the complacent on the basic integrity of set



behaviour. The enduring value of the expression of the Self through action rather than words.



Æ s The hypocrite. Do as I say, not as I do. Behaviour restricted to words rather than



action.





55 The heretic Direct and overt challenge to norms. Direct and overt challeng e to norms. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Å p The ability to succeed through the understanding and expression of higher princi-



ples. Principled behaviour which directly challenges tradition.



Ä s The burning at the stake. Behaviour which directly challenges behaviour and is even-



tually punished.





44 The opportunist The acceptance of norms until a successful transformation can be engen- The acceptance of norms until a successful transformation can be enge n- 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" dered. dered.



Ç p Transformation that is transcendence to a higher code. The maintaining of behav-



ioural patterns until the right moment and opportunity for transformation.



Â s Oportunism as a game and/or mental exercise. Altering one's behavioural patterns in



order to take advantage of opportunities.





33 The martyr The futile rejection of standards based on a just awareness. The futile rejection of standards based on a just awareness. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Í p The martyr as an enduring example whose behaviour is ultimately enshrined. Be-



haviour that is ultimately challenged by others.



Á s The martyr complex. The active pursuit of martyrdom for personal aggrandizement.



Behaviour as a way to attract attention.





22 The hermit The successful sidestepping of behavioral requirements through isolation. The successful sidestepping of behavioral requirements through isolation. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Â p Mercury exalted, where mental functions enrich aloneness. Independent behaviour



through isolation.

Ä s The angry exile. Isolation to preserve independent behaviour in the face of condition-

ing.



11 Modesty An innate sense to know and accept one's place. An innate sense to know and accept one's place. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" À p A valued sense of purpose no matter what the position. The ability to know one's

place and how to act despite circumstances.

Á s The affliction of oversensitivity and hurt feeling. Oversensitivity to external condition-

ing of behaviour.



10 10 11 THE GATE OF IDEAS Channel 11-56 Curiosity The design of the searcher Harmonic Gate 56 The Wanderer ‰ 26 v 11 w 10 Center Ajna ‰ Circuit Sensing

Astrologic Position 22° 37' 30" ‰ - 28° 15' 00" ‰



The gate of Ideas is the conceptual possibility which emerges from the difficult task of realizing. This gate pre-pares a concept for articulation through the capacity of its visual memory. Like its mirror, the 17th gate of Opinion, the 11th gate is associated in our biology with the eyes, here, the left eye. The left eye operates in a wave. In the now, it sees only an aspect of the whole, yet over time, given its memory, it can capture the entire picture. Ideas are not facts, they are possibilities. The process of making sense out of something cannot stop at realization. The goal of mental awareness is expression. The idea is a tool geared to express what has been sensed. This is a gate of those who seek stimulation, who have a need to stimulate, to share their ideas. So many people are frus-trated when their wonderful ideas do not turn into realities, but look at the design. The fulfillment of an idea is its verbal expression, not action; and with good reason, this is the circuit of cycles, transitoriness and the wave. Ideas are not a prescription for action, they are stimulation for reflection.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EDEN (4) IDEAS EDUCATION (2)





11





PEACE 11





A HARMONIC CONDITION IN THE INDIVIDUAL OR SOCIETY THAT PERMITS



ASSESSMENT BEFORE RENEWED ACTION.





66 Adaptability The inner balance to accept transition. The inner balance to accept transition. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" È p The innate awareness that all forms are transitory. The realization that ideas lead to



change and are changeable.



Å s Adaptability in its most negative manifestation. The speculator who profits at the



expense of others in times of peace or war. The realization of what idea is of value in any situation.





55 Á p The motiveless nurturing of the disenfranchised to ensure harmony. Philosophic and The philanthropist humanitarian ideas. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Â s The withdrawing from direct contact, where giving is a form of defence. Giving away



ideas out of a sense of insecurity.





44 The teacher The ability to express the essential nature of peace. The ability to express the essential nature of peace. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Á p The sage, that in the extreme, can teach harmony to the tone deaf. Venus is also



exalted. The ability to reach out and attract the alienated. Concepts which are clear and transferable. Ideas which can attract and inform the uneducated.



À s The Guru, whose most valued wisdom is intentionally limited to a few. Ideas which



can only be grasped by the few.





33 The realist The acknowledgment that peace is transitory. The acknowled gment that peace is transitory. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" É p The internal renewal to maintain strength and alertness. The realization that ideas



come and go.



Ã s The tendency to appreciate harmony to the point of delusion. The belief that beauty



is eternal. Fiddling while Rome burns. A pleasure in ideas that have no real applica-tion.





22 Rigour The recognition that without vigilance and risk, peace can lead to stagnation The recognition that without vigilance and risk, peace can lead to stagnation 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" and collapse. and collapse.



È p The imagination applied to ensuring the understanding of achieved values. A sense



of boredom overcome through the imagination.



Ä s The resorting to factionalism to satisfy the ego's need for action. Provoking with



ideas to escape boredom.





11 Attunement The serendipity of being in the right place at the right time. The serendipity of being in the right place at the right time. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Á p The nourishment derived from being with those who share the same goals and



aspirations. The gift of finding those who will value your ideas.



Ä s The fear of anonymity. The sense that no one will value their ideas.





11 11 12 THE GATE OF CAUTION Channel 12-22 Openness The design of the social being Harmonic Gate 22 Grace ƒ 45 v 12 w 15 Center Throat ƒ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 22° 37' 30" ƒ - 28° 15' 00" ƒ ƒ



Powerful emotions and unique insights aren't for everyone. Standstill is the only gate in the Throat that is specifi-cally about not doing. It is a gate of social caution, of wariness about the collective. This is one of the three gates (40,33) of Aloneness. Since this is the gate of the mechanical expression of the Emoting Stream, its caution is naturally rooted in its mood. 'I try' is its voice but it is always a maybe, depending on the mood, the spirit. The indi-vidual always faces resistance and it is natural to be hesitant about social interaction. This gate is a destiny of 'familiarity bringing contempt'. The individual has its greatest impact as a stranger of consequence; releasing its awareness in the proper spirit and then withdrawing. As a Throat mechanic, this gate has the capacity to be ex-tremely articulate (when its in the mood). The power of Cultural Mutation is the mystery of Standstill.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EDEN (2) ARTICULATION EDUCATION





12





STANDSTILL 12





THE QUALITY OF RESTRAINT AND THE IMPORTANCE OF MEDITATION AND



INACTION IN CONFRONTING TEMPTATION.





66 Metamorphosis Faith in, and energy applied towards change and the emergence from stand- Faith in, and energy applied towards change and the emergence from stan d- 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" still. still.



À p Creative transcendence that when connected to the Harmonic Gate 22, through the



channel of Openness, leads to successful mutation and the emergence of a new social form. The capacity to mutate and express new social forms.



Í s A retrograde metamorphosis that has evolved a perfected adaption to standstill.



The perfected adaption to caution that can accept social limitations.





55 The pragmatist The success of restraint lies in not abandoning the lessons learnt when the The success of restraint lies in not abandoning the lessons learnt when the 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" phase ends. phase ends.



À p Light is always conscious of darkness. Caution as an expression of social experi-



ence.



Ä s The tendency to remember only the most painful lessons learnt. Caution which is



conditioned by the most painful social experiences.





44 The prophet The ability to foresee and plan for the end of standstill. The ability to foresee and plan for the end of standstill. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Í p The rousing of the stagnant for communal preparation. The ability to foresee and



express the need for social interaction and an end to caution.



Â s The voice in the wilderness. The expressed need for social interaction that falls on



deaf ears.





33 Confession The process of self--analysis. The process of self analysis. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" È p The recognition of inadequacies and the purging of unjustified vanities. The expres-



sion of inadequacies in social interaction that leads to self-analysis and caution.



Ä s A perverse and often exaggerated self-hatred. Inadequacies in social interaction that



lead to the expression of self-hatred.





22 Purification Rigorous withdrawal from negative influences. Rigorous withdrawal from negative influences. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Æ p The discipline to maintain a pure state. The expression of disciplined social caution.



Â s The boredom that arises out of lack of stimulation. Caution that manifests boredom



and the expressed desire for stimulus.





11 The monk Withdrawal that can only be maintained with communal support. Withdrawal that can only be maintained with communal support. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Ã p The beauty and harmony possible beyond the reach of temptation. The expression



of social withdrawal and its value when supported by others.



Å s Simon the Stylite, total and often absurd withdrawal. The absurd expression of social



caution and extreme withdrawal from emotional contact.





12 12 13 THE GATE OF THE LISTENER Channel 33-13 The Prodigal The design of the witness Harmonic Gate 33 Retreat ‹ 19 v 13 w 49 Center G ‹ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 13° 15' 00" ‹ - 18° 52' 30" ‹



Where the logic process demands a Role for the Self, the abstract demands that the Self listens. This gate is the openness of the Self in interaction. It is a gate of the Cross of the Sphinx and manifests direction. In the logic process, direction is a projection through which the collective is pointed towards the possibilities of the future. The abstract process is direction through reflection and points out the experience of the past. This is a gate of the listener. This gate will always attract others who will come and share their experiences. This is the channel of the witness and the completion of the Abstract process. It is the point at the end of a cycle. Here, the knowledge of the cycle is accumulated as memory. There is also magic in this gate for it is the gate of the Hearer of Secrets. This is the Role of openness.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SPHINX LISTENING MASKS





13





THE FELLOWSHIP OF MAN 13





UNIVERSAL IDEAS AND VALUES IN AN ORDERED FRAMEWORK WHICH IN-



SPIRES HUMANISTIC COOPERATION .





66 The optimist The ability to accept any limited interaction as a necessary step towards The ability to accept any limited interaction as a necessary step towards 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" greater union. greater union.



Ä p The energy to persevere. Unlimited hope. The hope that openness will lead to better



relationships.



Â s Naivete. The translation of mutual interest into universality. The belief that mutual



interests can be projected on others.





55 The saviour The ability to overcome all obstacles for the betterment of humanity. The ability to overcome all obstacles for the betterment of humanity. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" È p The charismatic genius who can find a role for everyone. The listener that has a gift



for finding a role for others.



Å s The able administrator. Given the extreme positive nature of this position, mundane



application is rare. The listener whose gift for finding a role for others is practical and suited to administration.





44 Fatigue The point of exhaustion eventually reached when one is too tired to fight. The point of exhau stion eventually reached when one is too tired to fight. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" É p The renaissance that comes with truce and its eventual reinvigoration. Openness



which leads to exhaustion and the need for silence.



Ã s Emotional exhaustion. Appeasement and withdrawal. A role where openness is a



vulnerability.





33 Pessimism The belief that what is best can never be achieved. The belief that what is best can never be achieved. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Í p A lack of trust that can only be transformed through concrete evidence. Openness



that is conditioned by suspicion and seeks evidence.



Ã s Pessimism exalted to an art form, where as art, it may have the opposite effect.



Satire. Where the rightness of suspicion can inspire satire.





22 Bigotry The risk, always present, that fellowship can only exist for a particular type, The risk, always present, that fellowship can only ex ist for a particular type, 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" whether racial, religious, national or intellectual. whether racial, religious, national or intellectual.



Á p Tolerance as the least offensive manifestation of bigotry. A role of openness through

tolerance.

À s The obsessive belief that the highest ideals cannot be embraced by the lowest

forms. An extremely difficult position, where even the highest ideals provide ration-alization for hatred. A role of openness so narrow that there is practically no one worth listening to.



11 Empathy The ability to relate and commune with everyone with equanimity. The ability to re late and commune with everyone with equanimity. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Ã p Harmony through affection. A role of openness in listening to others with affection.

Á s The politician kissing babies. An openness that is never free of motives.



13 13 14 THE GATE OF POWER SKILLS Channel 2-14 The Beat The design of being the keeper of keys Harmonic Gate 2 The Receptive ˆ 43 v 14 34 Center Sacral w ˆ Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 24° 30' 00" ˆ - 00° 07' 30" ‰ ‰



This is the fertile power of the Sacral center at its most exalted. The channels between the G center and the Sacral are Tantric channels, where the sacral energy is available as fuel to empower the Self. The ultimate expression, however, always lies through the Throat. The 14th gate, is the power that drives the Sphinx. The 'Driver' the Prime Magnetic Monopole, may know the direction but if there is no key to turn on the motor, there is nowhere for the vehicle to go. Changes in Human Direction are determined by mutation in the Format energy and the consequent mutation of the 'Drivers' fuel. Fuel determines direction! A vegetarian and a carnivore have different directions in life.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONTAGEN (4) EMPOWERING UNCERTAINTY (2)





14





POSSESSION IN GREAT MEASURE 14





THE ACCUMULATION AND RETENTION OF POWER THROUGH SKILLED IN-



TERACTION, COUPLING GRACE WITH CONTROL.





66 Humilty Wealth and power at its most exalted. Wealth and power at its most exalted. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" À p The enlightened recognition that material success is God's will. Spirituality as the key



to acceptance and the source of power.



Í s All manifestations of this position are essentially positive. The Earth represents the



existentialist recognition that material success was unavoidable and the humility engendered by such serendipity. Existentialism as the key to acceptance and the source of power.





55 Arrogance The ever present risk inherent in positions of power. The ever present risk inherent in positions of power. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" À p Innate dignity. Innate dignity that is a key to power.



Ã s A dissatisfaction with the gifts of others that creates feelings of superiority. Innate



recognition of those without power fueling the illusion of superiority.





44 Security The concentration on establishing a strong foundation. The concentration on establishing a strong foundation. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" Á p Protection from assault. The key to power lies in developing skills to ensure a strong



foundation.



Ä s Overconfidence in meeting the challenge of competition that may threaten the very



basis of security. Without the proper skills the inability to guarantee security.





33 Service The utilization of talent and wealth for the highest good. The utilization of talent and wealth for the highest good. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Í p Selfless contribution to society. The key to power lies in selfless contribution to oth-



ers.



È s Greed and the self-destruction of moral fibre. The power of selfishness to fuel greed.





22 Management The wisdom that investing in expertise brings rewards. The wisdom that investing in expertise brings rewards. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Å p Expansion. The ability to delegate responsibility. The key to power lies in not trying



to be and to do everything alone.



Ä s The vanity to be one's own best expert. The key to power is doing everything indi-



vidually.





11 Money isn't every- The recognition that wealth has its own problems. The recognition that wealth has its own problems. Å p The lust for lucre tempered by higher principles. The key to manifesting power is thing higher principles. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" Â s The delusion that you can throw money at problems. Energy alone can never be the

key.



14 14 15 THE GATE OF EXTREMES Channel 15-5 Rhythm The design of being in the flow Harmonic Gate 5 Waiting ƒ 12 v 15 52 Center G w ƒ Circuit Understanding

Astrologic Position 28° 15' 00" ƒ - 03° 52' 30" „ „



The 15th gate is part of the Cross of the Vessel. It is the gate of the 'Aura' and is the Self that is magnetic. The Love of this gate is for Humanity. This channel defined always determines the rhythm of the environment. Modesty in the traditional sense is always a matter of balancing extremes. Through this gate, the possible extremes are lived out. People who are busy and not, sleep long and short, eat early, eat late; in other words, people who will live out extremes in their rhythm. In Design Analysis, in working with composites, there is a type of connection called Electro-Magnetic. In this connection each partner activates the opposite gate of a channel forming a defini-tion. This is attraction / repulsion, love / hate, a basic relationship dynamic. However, in three cases (45/21, 35/36 and 5/15) this type of connection is very difficult. The 15th gate is uncomfortable with a fixed pattern and the 5th gate destabilized by extreme rhythms.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE VESSEL OF LOVE (2) EXTREMES PREVENTION





15





MODESTY 15





THE QUALITY OF BEHAVIOUR WHICH EXPRESSES THE PROPER BALANCE



BETWEEN EXTREMES.





66 Self-defense Modesty that is never confused with weakness. Modesty that is never confused with weakness. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" É p Constant reexamination to weed out the weakest aspect. The power of the Self in



exploring the extremes to find the weakest point.



Ã s A tendency to use harmony as a weapon in problem situations rather than focusing



on the root causes. The power of the Self to ignore the weakest point in favour of harmony.





55 Sensitivity The ability to sense when otherwise balanced behaviour must be adjusted to The ability to sense when otherwise balanced behaviour must be adjusted to 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" meet the requirements of changing environment. meet the requirements of changing environment.



Å p The power to grow. The capacity of the Self to grow through experiencing the ex-



tremes.



É s The tendency to overcompensate. The drive of the Self to overcompensate and dis-



turb the flow.





44 The wallflower Modesty as a shield against exposure of inadequacy. Modesty as a shield against exposure of inadequacy. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Å p A genuine form that may/or may not mask inadequacies. The uncomfortableness of



the Self when it is out of the flow.



Æ s An ultimately weak defense leading to exposure and humiliation. Extremism that



keeps the Self out of the flow.





33 Ego inflation The risk that modesty once recognized will self--destruct. The risk that modesty once recognized will self destruct. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Í p Where the otherwise negative contrived modesty is here reinforced by recognition



and maintained as an effective strategy. The extremism of the Self as strategy to control the flow.



Â s The 'I told you so' mentality. The capacity of the Self to point out the extremes of



others.





22 À p Modesty and right action result in enduring standards. The capacity of the Self to Influence accept its extreme nature as correct. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Í s Where the Sun's actions are natural, the Earth's are contrived, though given the



power of this position, the same effect can be expected. The capacity to use the extreme nature of the Self to influence others.





11 Duty The ability to confront any challenge without expectations. The ability to confront any challenge without expectations. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" Ã p Harmonic relationships which give support for the fulfillment of any task. The capac-



ity of the Self to confront any challenge through extreme and harmonic relationships.



Ä s Alienation engendered through exaggerated claims. The capacity of the Self to



alienate others through extremes.





15 15 16 THE GATE OF SKILLS Channel 16-48 The Wave Length A design of talent Harmonic Gate 48 The Well ƒ 20 v 16 w 35 Center Throat ƒ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 05° 45' 00" ƒ - 11° 22' 30" ƒ ƒ



Talent by its very design is so often dependent on others for manifestation. The defining of the Spleen to the Throat, allows only for verbal manifestation. Every gate of the Throat center has a voice. The 16th gate says, 'I experiment'. Since the Understanding Circuit is about patterns and focus, it makes a clear statement about the quality of talent being dependent on repetition. Constant experimentation, over and over, goaded by the critical capacity, to find the 'perfect' expression. The 16th gate is the gate of Skills, the ancient Chinese Hexagram of Mu-sic, Dance and the Arts. However, this gate is not specifically about the fine Arts, inherent in its capacity is skills for living; a talent for life. One of the keys to Design Analysis is to recognize that harmonic gates are always pro-jecting each other's attributes on the other. The 48 is always self-critical about not having enough skills, and the 16, not enough depth and more complex, the 48 will confuse skills with depth and the 16, vice versa. This was the relationship of John Lennon (48) and Paul McCartney (16).



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PLANNING (2) EXPERIMENTATION IDENTIFICATION





16





ENTHUSIASM 16





THE GREAT ART OF ENRICHING LIFE BY THE HARMONIC CHANNELLING OF



ENERGY .





66 Gullibility The susceptibility to propaganda. The susceptibility to propaganda. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" È p The ability to experience, examine and then reject misleading enthusiasm. The tal-



ent to assess the expression of others.



Å s The same principle but where Neptune will destroy and then seek new forms, Jupi-



ter will painfully withdraw. Its enthusiasm for social structures permanently preju-diced. The failure to assess the expression of others.





55 The grinch The refusal to share in enthusiasm. The refusal to share in enthusiasm. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" É p The power to avoid enthusiasm for the sole purpose of being converted. As with



Dickens' Scrooge, eventual conversion leads to greater and more enduring enthusi-asm. A lack of confidence in the expression of skills that needs the encouragement of others.



Á s The perverse feeling that sharing in enthusiasm hampers individual development.



Why should I be happy when ... etc. A lack of confidence in the value of encouraging others.





44 The leader Genuine and sincere support and recognition of others. Genuine and sincere support and recognition of others. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Å p Enthusiasm for/and service to higher goals. The skill to recognize and support the



talents of others.



Ä s The demagogue. The refusal to support or recognize the talents of others.





33 Independence Self--generating and sustaining enthusiasm. Self generating and sustaining enthusiasm. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" Á p The proper timing to maintain rhythm and avoid deflation. The independent skill and



possible talent to express proper timing and rhythm.



Ä s The child whose overconfidence may lead to frustration and the ensuing depend-



ence on others to regenerate enthusiasm; thus creating an unnecessary reliance. The need to have others confirm one's skills or talent.





22 The cynic The sharpness to burst bubbles. The sharpness to burst bubbles. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" À p Self-reliance and the skill to judge objectively any claim regardless of rhetoric. The



expression of the skill to judge objectively.



Â s The compulsive cynic, whose very cynicism is a source of enthusiasm. Objectivity



expressed through cynicism.





11 Delusion False enthusiasm. False enthusiasm. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Í p The day dreamer. The expression of talent through daydreaming.



Â s The public communication of inevitably unrealized claims. The tendency to express



fantasy as fact.





16 16 17 THE GATE OF OPINIONS Channel 17-62 Acceptance A design of an organizational being Harmonic Gate 62 Preponderance of the Small Q 25 17 Center Ajna v w 21 Q Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 03° 52' 30" Q - 09° 30' 00" Q



The possibility of being able to organize the Formula, the understanding, and prepare it for expression. This is the gate of the student and the teacher. It is the formula brought into to focus. This is the gate of Opinion. The Circuit of Understanding demands proof and opinions must have a logical foundation to withstand testing and criticism. This by the way isn't to say whether these opinions, logical or not, are correct. Facts are regularly used to support lies and lies are proffered as formulas. This is about the form of the concept. The Collective mental possibilities, gates 11 and 17, are associated in our biology with the Eyes. The 17th gate is the right Eye. It is the eye which sees clearly in the Now. It is the best eye for experimentation. The left eye never sees everything at once! These mental concepts are about visualization. The right eye seeks the fixed pattern and projects out of this pattern. Opinion is like a crystal ball. Fixed visually on the pattern in the now and projecting into the future. By design, the question (63), the answer (4) and the Opinion have no voice much less any power to act. The mind is far away from a motor.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF SERVICE OPINIONS UPHEAVEL





17





FOLLOWING 17





THE ANCIENT LAW THAT THOSE WHO WISH TO RULE MUST KNOW HOW



TO SERVE .





66 The bodhisattva Perfected following, one with and the same as, perfected leading. Perfected following, one with and the same as, perfected leading. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Á p The great nurturer. The nature of this position is always positive. The possibility in



understanding the nature of interdependency to express opinions of value to others.



Å s The tendency on the perfected path it is a straight line that ends rather than a circle.



Where understanding is achieved, the possibility of having the opinion that there is nothing else to learn.





55 No human is an The recognition, however understood that there is no end to hierarchies. The recognition, however understood that there is no end to hierarchies. Ç p The ultimate creative expression of interdependency, whether as God's will or global island synthesis. Opinions that can express the value of being organized whether mundane 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" or spiritual.



Ä s The arrogance, despite all the evidence to claim, that the buck stops here! The



possibility of opinions that refuse to see the value of being organized.





44 É p The ability to probe and discover the underlying motivation and resources of those The personnel who wish to follow. The possibility of opinions based on the understanding of others. manager Å s The overgenerous and often misguided acceptance of would-be followers, often 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" with disastrous results. The possibility of opinions attracting others.





33 Understanding The awareness that the best road is not necessarily the most interesting. The awareness that the best road is not necessarily the most inter esting. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" É p The following of the best road provides the experience necessary to meet the chal-



lenge of the road's end. The understanding that the best opinions are grounded in detail.



Í s The taking of short cuts. One may get to the end quicker, but essential experience



will be missing. The possibility of skipping details and limiting the value of the opin-ion.





22 Discrimination The benefit of associations based on the highest values. The benefit of associations based on the highest values. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" À p The successful achievement of purpose through proper alignment. The possibility to



develop opinions through relationships.



Á s An overactive discrimination that leaves one virtually alone. The possibility of being



opinionated at the expense of relationships.





11 Ä p The energy to sustain a broad spectrum of stimuli. The possibility of having many Openness opinions. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Ã s A tendency to limit openness to aesthetically pleasing stimuli. The possibility to limit



opinions to what is pleasing.





17 17 18 THE GATE OF CORRECTION Channel 18-58 Judgment A design of insatiability Harmonic Gate 58 The Joyous ‡ 46 v 18 w 48 Center Spleen ‡ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 03° 52' 30" ‡ - 09° 30' 00" ‡ ‡



Taste, the focus of judgment on dissatisfaction. This gate is where we receive our deepest conditioning from our parents. In the I'Ching this gate is referred to as Work on what has been spoilt. It is through this gate that a woman is conditioned by her Father, and where a man is conditioned by his Mother. The Oedipus / Electra Gate. This isn't to say that this is a negative. It is the gate of essential learning and as a result is the gate of Correction. This is where we learn generationally, from parent to child. The 18th gate activated in a chart is an indication that there has been deep conditioning from the parent. It is through this 'imprinting' that a certain standard has been estab-lished. These conditioned standards will form the basis for comparison and will be applied to everything; lovers, work, oneself, and the reality despite circumstances will always invite the potential of Correction. The very vitality of this channel denies resignation, and the need to correct, to improve is a life long process. Without the dissatis-faction and the drive for perfection which hones the critical skills, there is no understanding. Here is where the potential of Taste is born.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF SERVICE (3) CORRECTION UPHEAVEL (2)





18





WORK ON WHAT HAS BEEN 18



SPOILT





THE VIGILANCE AND DETERMINATION TO UPHOLD AND DEFEND BASIC



AND FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS .





66 Buddhahood The perfected form. The perfected form. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Ä p The Buddha state of the eternal child and the energy to find new horizons to avoid



stasis. The potential of the perfected form through correction.



Á s The mundane application of the above. The ability to tap public opinion and share



methodology. The potential to share the values of the correction with others.





55 Therapy The strength to recognize a problem and to accept that it is beyond one's The strength to recognize a problem and to accept that it is beyond one's 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" power to solve it alone. power to solve it alon e.



Æ p The wisdom to both seek and provide guidance. The potential for correction and



judgment through relationships.



Ç s The mental patient. Chronic instability and potential madness. Where relationships



cannot assist in correction the potential of mental instability.





44 The incompetent Difficulties as a result of inadequacies that cannot be resolved because of Difficulties as a result of inadequacies that cannot be resolved because of 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" inadequacies. inadequacies.



Í p Given this negative position, survival through suffering. The inability to correct and



its potential for suffering.



Â s Indecision and anxiety and no escape from misfortune. The demands of correction



and its potential to generate anxiety.





33 The zealot The energetic obsession to clean house. The energetic obsession to clean house. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" È p The dissolution of old forms at an acceptable price. An obsession with correction



and its critical potential.



Å s Rigid judgmentation that creates as many problems as it solves. An obsession with



correction that does not bring satisfaction.





22 Terminal disease The recognition that what has been spoilt is irreversible. The recognition that what has been spoilt is irreversible. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" É p Acceptance and strength derived from a faith in spiritual regeneration. The accep-



tance that there is no potential for correction.



Á s The futile raging against the wind. The refusal to accept that there is no potential for



correction.





11 Conservatism The adherence to traditional patterns despite and/or in spite of changing cir- The adherence to traditional patterns despite and/or in spite of changing ci r- 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" cumstances. cumstances.



Í p Gradual modification to avoid eventual upheaval. The potential to correct through



gradual modification of judgments.



Å s The Patriarch whose rigidity guarantees deterioration. The potential to refuse to cor-



rect.





18 18 19 THE GATE OF WANTING Channel 49-19 Synthesis A design of being sensitive Harmonic Gate 49 Revolution ‹ 41 v 19 13 Center Root w ‹ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 07° 37' 30" ‹ - 13° 15' 00" ‹



The Ego Circuit, the circuit of the material Plane is not to be underestimated, nor is it specifically mundane. This is the Tribal circuitry, where the keynote is 'support'. This is the circuit of our communities and their survival. This channel of Synthesis, is one of the three Mystical Channels (51/25, 10/20) and the only one that is potentially aware and not strictly mechanical. This gate is the fuel of the sensitivity process. At its most mundane, it is hardly spiritual. It is potentially over-sensitive and easily disturbed. The 19th gate fuels our social needs. It fuels the drive to make sure that the community exists and that there is a place within the community for this energy. It is not about wanting or needing 'someone' specifically. It is the energy to support and the need to have the support of the community available. It is about having access and not be socially restricted. It is the force which drives all revolutions. At a biological level, it is about food. To avoid over-sensitivity, it's always necessary for the 19 to have a full refrigerator!



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE FOUR WAYS (4) NEED REFINEMENT (2)





19





APPROACH 19





THAT ALL THINGS ARE INTERRELATED IS APPARENT AND MANIFESTED



THROUGH THE ACTION OF APPROACH .





66 The recluse The avoidance of contact in general but not exclusively. The avoidance of contact in general but not exclusively. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Å p The fool on the hill. The sage, that if you can find him, will talk to you. The energy



which generally fuels avoidance.



Ä s The sulking child. The self-imposed exile that will only end when it attracts appropri-



ate and soothing reaction. Oversensitivity to rejection that fuels avoidance.





55 Sacrifice The need to limit personal potential in order to achieve a larger goal. The need to limit personal potential in order to achieve a larger goal. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Í p The self-restraint fundamental to such a nature. Energy to keep one's sensitivities



restrained.



Å s A tendency in sacrifice to condescend. Sacrifice can fuel a lack of sensitivity.





44 The team player Individual approach which attracts and accepts cooperation. Individual approach which attracts and accepts cooperation. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Ä p The power and energy for outward activity and the ability to accept others as long



as they can keep up. A driving force that can benefit the whole group. The energy to seek out and exalt in the company of others.



Ã s Attractive and cooperative but a tendency to dissatisfaction with the contribution of



others. A sensitivity energized by the limitation of others.





33 Dedication Receptivity to approach can only be maintained through vigilance. Receptivity to approa ch can only be maintained through vigilance. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ã p The natural ease with which communion is maintained. Sensitivity and ease fueled



by acceptance by others.



Á s A tendency to moodiness that may lead to carelessness. The need to be wanted



hampered by oversensitivity.





22 Service The dedication of personal resources as a result of external contact. The dedication of personal resources as a result of external contact. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Å p Dedication and service to the highest values. The energy to want to be of service.



Â s Protracted indecision, but given the nature of this position, eventual compliance.



The need to be wanted that will eventually turn its energy to service.





11 À p The successful approach that does not loose its individual character in acceptance. Interdependence The pressure of wanting without losing one's identity when being accepted by oth-07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" ers.



Á s The tendency once an approach is accepted to get stuck in continued reflection at



the expense of continued development. The pressure for acceptance which fears eventual rejection.





19 19 20 THE GATE OF THE NOW Channel 20-10 Awakening A design of commitment to higher principles 20-57 The Brain Wave ƒ A design of awareness 8 v 20 w 16 20-34 Charisma ƒ A design where thoughts must be deeds





Harmonic Gates 10 Treading

57 The Gentle 34 The Power of the Great

Center Throat

Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 00° 07' 30" ƒ - 05° 45' 00" ƒ ƒ



Contemplation is the only purely existential gate. The Throat Center is the final stage in the process of expressing the Intuition. The Throat Center is not aware. It has a mechanical function, to speak or act, which can be condi-tioned by Awareness. Each gate of the Throat has its own unique voice. The voice of Contemplation, unaware and free of maia, says, 'I am Now'. When the Intuition is Defined to the Throat, then the voice says, 'I know I am Now'. It is important to remember that the Splenic Center is not a motor. The Channel of Penetrating Awareness, remains strickly verbal and though the knowing in the now exists as Awareness, it cannot be transformed into action. When the entire Stream of Intuition is Defined, the Throat can then manifest all of the potential of Intuition. 'I know what I am struggling for in the Now'.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SLEEPING PHOENIX (2) THE NOW DUALITY





20





CONTEMPLATION 20





RECOGNITION AND AWARENESS IN THE NOW WHICH TRANSFORMS



UNDERSTANDING INTO RIGHT ACTION .





66 Wisdom Contemplation which results in the ability to apply understanding. Contemplation which results in the ability to apply understanding. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Ã p The establishment for the benefit of society, values, ideals and their patterns and



how they can be understood and applied. The ability to transform individual aware-ness for general application and understanding.



Â s The same as above but motivated by the self-satisfying mental challenge rather



than altruism. The ability to transform individual awareness for general application for the mental challenge.





55 Realism Contemplation, in and of itself, is no guarantee of success. Contemplation, in and of itself, is no guarantee of success. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Æ p Where concentration on detail results in a perfected form. The success of express-



ing awareness through detail.



Ç s Where reality creates dissatisfaction and adds to instability. The expression of



awareness in the now through dissatisfaction with the reality one sees.





44 Application Recognition and awareness that can only be transformed into action in coo Recognition and awar eness that can only be transformed into action in coop- p- 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" eration with those who have the ability to act upon the understanding. eration with those who have the ability to act upon the understanding.



Å p The teach whose students transcend him. Where the expression of awareness can



only be turned into action through others. The teacher.



Â s A tendency to prefer theory to application. The expression of the awareness as the-



ory with little interest in its application.





33 Self-awareness Understanding derived from analysis of personal actions and effects.. Understanding derived from analysis of personal actions and effects 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" À p The proper attunement and development of the personality through self-



consciousness. The expression of self-conscious awareness in the now.



Í s Self-consciousness in the extreme that hampers development. The expression of



self-consciousness in the extreme.





22 The dogmatist Restrictive and intentionally limited understanding. Restrictive and intentionally limited understanding. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ã p The limitation if personal and exclusive is less negative through ascetic withdrawal.



A restrictive awareness of the now.



Á s The power to lead others down a narrow path. The gift through expression of leading



others down a narrow and restrictive path.





11 Superficiality A reliance on shallowness. A reliance on shallowness. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Ã p The raising of superficiality to an art form. The sloganeer. Superficial expression as



an art form.



Á s The superficial expression of the personality. The expression of the superficial per-



sonality.





20 20 21 T HE GATE OF THE HUNTER/HUNTRESS Channel 21-45 The Money Line A design of a materialist Harmonic Gate 45 Gathering Together Q 17 v 21 51 Center Heart w Q Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 09° 30' 00" Q - 15° 07' 30" Q



The Channel of Materialism is unique in the Body Graph. It stands alone as a single channel, self-enclosed unit. It is the only outlet for the two Streams of Awareness, which determine the nature of the Ego; its strength and its will. In this sense, it rules our Tribal life. Biting Through is the power for life on the material plane. It is a great condition-ing force in the world. To have this gate in your Design, demands that you control, where you live, what you wear and what you eat! This gate can never afford to have a boss leaning over their shoulder. This is the gate of the 'hunter/huntress' and it is their ego drive to dominate. If this gate had a voice, it would say, 'I control'. If it is in a situation where it does not control, its power can never be fulfilled. This channel is keynoted as The Money Line. For the 21, if they are not in control of how they make their living, they are always far from success.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF TENSION CONTROL ENDEVOUR





21





BITING THROUGH 21





THE JUSTIFIED AND NECESSARY USE OF POWER IN OVERCOMING



DELIBERATE AND PERSISTENT INTERFERENCE.





66 Chaos Where ineffective action leads to disorder. Where ineffective action leads to disorder. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" É p The war of attrition. The continuance of legitimate action in the hope of eventually



succeeding despite all odds and increasing disorder. Where the ego is out of touch, the display of will power leads to disorder.



Ã s Withdrawal and reliance on inner order in a chaotic situation. Where the material



direction is chaotic, the ego will withdraw and use its power to find an inner order.





55 Objectivity The use of force must be based on impartiality and not emotionally moti- The use of force must be based on impartiality and not emotionally mot i- 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" vated. vated.



Å p A principled and legal character that ensures objectivity. The balanced ego whose



will power is applied objectively.



É s The drive for elimination is so powerful that objectivity is related purely to cause and



not effect. The ego whose will power is applied subjectively.





44 Strategy Careful appraisal of opposing forces to establish a proper response. Careful appraisal of opposing forces to establish a proper response. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Å p Success in action through clarity. The ego to succeed on the material plane and the



instinct to use will power effectively in response to conditions.



Í s A tendency, when in the right to misjudge the power of one's opponents. The drive



when in the right to follow one's ego rather than one's instincts.





33 Powerlessness Where the just are condemned to a futile confrontation with superior forces. Where the just are condemned to a futile confrontation with superior forces. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" È p Defeat as a survivable humiliation often acceptable through the abuse of drugs and



alcohol. Unless one follows one's own material path, the breaking of the ego by su-periors.



Å s Total withdrawal. A lack of will for the material path in order to protect the ego.





22 Might is right The legitimacy of action in response to flagrant and persistent interference. The legitimacy of action in response to flagrant and persistent interference. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Ä p Powerful and extreme reaction. Here, the severest action will be the most success-



ful. The legitimate rejection of interference on the material plane.



È s A tendency to regret severity, no matter how legitimate. The ego uncomfortable with



severity.





11 Warning The use of force as a last resort. The use of force as a last resort. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ä p The fierceness to be respected without recourse to action. The will power and ego



to ensure respect.



Á s An inherent peacefulness that all too often turns a necessary warning into a plea. A



lack of will power that is forced to ask for respect.





21 21 22 THE GATE OF OPENNESS Channel 12-22 Openness The design of the social being Harmonic Gate 12 Standstill Œ 63 22 Center Solar Plexus v w 36 Œ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 17° 00' 00" Œ - 22° 37' 30" Œ



The potential to realize the spirit becomes the possibility to share that spirit with others. The role of the individual is incomplete without social skills. On the Mental plane through the 43rd gate, the individual has the conceptual capacity to communicate its insight to others. The task is made more difficult by its strangeness. The Channel of Openness provides the individual with the gift for public access. The possibility of this gate is to empower others with the individual emotion. It is the quality of the emotional spirit which will condition how receptive the collective will be to the individual awareness. The Knowing process requires a certain amount of social interaction to dis-seminate its individuality towards the goal of Mutation. Grace is where the spirit of the knower is released in a wave.

The Sense of Hearing is associated with the Awareness possibility gates of the Knowing Circuit. The right Ear, the existential ear through the 57th gate; the Inner Ear, the inner voice of the individual through the 43rd gate; the left Ear is through Grace. What you hear with your left Ear, you hear in a Wave! If you listen to the telephone with the left Ear, you will only hear the good or bad of the hope & pain wave, the rest will come later.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF RULERSHIP GRACE INFORMING





22





GRACE 22





A QUALITY OF BEHAVIOUR BEST SUITED IN HANDLING MUNDANE AND



TRIVIAL SITUATIONS .





66 Maturity The alignment with experience of form with substance. The alignment with experience of form with substance. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" À p Natural and evident leadership and authority. The possibility that experience in so-



cial interaction will result in a leadership capacity.



Ä s The alignment tends to express itself in nonconformist modes. The possibility that



experience in social interaction will result in a non-conformist expression of open-ness.





55 Directness The disregard of form when required. The disregard of form when required. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Å p The power inherent in higher principles to successfully transgress behavioral codes.



The possibility through emotional awareness to behave individualistically in social interaction.



Ä s A tendency to create embarrassing situations, and though invariably successful, the



often resulting reputation for crudity and impudence. The possibility that individual behaviour in social interaction will generate negative projections from others.





44 Sensitivity The modification of behaviour to enrich interactions. The modification of behaviour to enrich interactions. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" È p A mediumistic simplicity that rejects elaborate rituals. The possibility of social open-



ness through the rejection of formality.



Ä s An over-reliance on the mechanics of style that can abort potentially significant rela-



tionships. The limitation of social openness through the need for formality.





33 The enchanter Perfected grace. Perfected grace. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" Æ p Form as a definition and actualization of substance. The possibility for perfected



openness through the alignment of emotional energy and awareness.



Ä s Unconscious grace. An innate openness.





22 Charm school The belief that style can mask nature. The belief that style can mask nature. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" À p The ability to successfully delude oneself and others. The possibility to attract others



with an emotional style.



Å s The legalization of form over substance. Where the style is energized at the expense



of awareness.





11 Á p The ability to accept and enjoy a subordinate position. The emotinal awareness to Second class ticket enjoy a subordinate position. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" Ä s The inevitable humiliation that comes with claiming a first class seat with a second



class ticket. Where the emotional energy challenges the awareness and can result in humiliation socially.





22 22 23 THE GATE OF ASSIMILATION Channel 43-23 Structuring A design of individuality (Genius to Freak) Harmonic Gate 43 Breakthrough ‚ 2 v 23 w 8 Center Throat ‚ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 18° 52' 30" ‚ - 24° 30' 00" ‚



The very fact that an insight is unique and individual requires that its expression be able to communicate its es-sence to the collective. The purpose of individuation is to leave the door open to mutation. If an insight is truly of value to others , it has to be successfully communicated. This gate is about eliminating intolerance. In an intoler-ant world, the individual cannot survive. When the possibility of insight and the drive for assimilation come to-gether, are connected, defined, we have the Channel of Structuring, a design of Individuality, from genius to freak. If the individual can express their insight clearly to the collective they will eventually earn the collective's respect. If they cannot clearly express their insight, they will be shunned and dismissed as outsiders or freaks. This descrip-tion is of course the extreme of the polarity. This is the voice, that says, 'I know (whether they do or not)'



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EXPLANATION (2) ASSIMILATION DEDICATION





23





SPLITTING APART 23





AMORALITY. THE AWARENESS AND UNDERSTANDING WHICH LEADS TO



THE ACCEPTANCE OF DIVERSITY.





66 Fusion The gradual attunement of diversity through synthesis. The gradual attunement of diversity through synthesis. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Ä p The exponential growth of energy and its power of assertion engendered by fusion.



Individual knowing which brings diversity to synthesis.



Å s The principled but futile withdrawal from fusion that leads to atrophy. Individual



knowing that holds on to diversity and loses its power in expression.





55 Assimilation The practical acceptance of the values of another path. The practical acceptan ce of the values of another path. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Å p Expansion and contribution through assimilation. The gift of communicating individ-



ual insight to the collective.



Á s Motive driven assimilation from an inferior position, i.e. for protection or nourish-



ment. Motive driven assimilation for acceptance and protection from the collective.





44 Fragmentation Diversification without a perceived potential for synthesis. Diversification without a perceived potential for synthesis. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" À p Fatalism and egoism and damn the consequences. Individual expression which has



no collective value.



Í s Atheism and paranoia. Individual expression which engenders isolation and fear.





33 Individuality Independent expression that is not by its nature detrimental to others. Independent expression that is not by its nature detrimental to others. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" À p Vitality and personal power that can engender jealousy but not threat. Individual



expression which attracts attention but not threat.



É s An individual mysteriousness that attracts active suspicion and threat. The freak.



Individual expression that attracts suspicion and threat.





22 Self-defense The need to abandon tolerance when survival is threatened. The need to abandon tolerance when survival is threatened. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" Å p The principle of preservation at its most acute. The abandonment of tolerance when



individual expression is threatened.



Á s Where Jupiter will strike out to preserve its integrity, the Moon is often satisfied with



just protecting itself by fending off hostility. The defense of individual expression in the face of hostility.





11 Proselytization The attempt to undermine one set of values for another. The attempt to und ermine one set of values for another. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" Å p The sage, who in the extreme can defend evil as a part of the greater good. The



powerful expression of an insight which will undermine established values.



Ä s The missionary whose very light will bring darkness. The powerful expression of an



insight which will produce negative effects.





23 23 24 THE GATE OF RATIONALIZING Channel 61-24 Awareness A design of the thinker Harmonic Gate 61 Inner Truth ‚ 27 v 24 2 Center Ajna w ‚ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 07° 37' 30" ‚ - 13° 15' 00" ‚



The Return is a conceptualizing gate. Individual conceptualizing is a complex process. The role of the mental indi-viduality is to find a way to communicate a unique awareness to the Collective mind. Before any attempt at com-munication is possible, the inspiration must be given a rational form. The word rationalizing often has a negative conotation attached to it which is a projection of the collective on the individual. The Return is just that, returning over and over again, what is poetically called pondering, until the energy is transformed into a rational form. In the symmetry of this circuit, there are three gates of Awareness potential; 28: The Risk Taker and 55: the gate of the half empty or half full cup, Abundance. The design to rationalize is a risk and a test of the Spirit. There is no proof, logical collective or experience, abstract collective, there is only the potential that what has been rationalized may be a true knowing.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE FOUR WAYS RATIONALIZATION INCARNATION





24





RETURNING 24





THE NATURAL AND SPONTANEOUS PROCESS OF TRANSFORMATION AND



RENEWAL.





66 The gift horse The possibility of being deaf when opportunity knocks. The possibility of being deaf when opportunity knocks. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Å p The conscious participation in a process that prepares one for easy identification of



opportunity. Identification and focus with the rational thought process.



É s Innate suspicion which leads inevitably to lost opportunities. Often irrational suspi-



cion that distorts the focus and can lead to missed opportunities.





55 Confession The courage to admit the mistakes of the past. The courage to admit the mistakes of the past. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Á p The practical value of starting with a clean slate, symbolized by the New Moon.



Rational correction that opens the way to new possibilities.



Ä s The tendency to try to minimalize past mistakes through rationalization; turning con-



fession into justification. Irrational justification of past mistakes.





44 The hermit Transformation that can only take place in isolation. Transformation that can only take place in isolation. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Æ p The discipline and focus that assures renewal. Aloneness enriches the potential for



rational thought.



È s The tendency in isolation to live in a fantasy world. Aloneness encourages the po-



tential of illusion or delusion.





33 The addict The powerful attraction of regressive forms. The powerful attraction of regressive forms. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ã p The ultimate though difficult triumph over regression. The difficult but possible task



of overcoming irrationality.



Å s Addiction and regression legitimized by success. Irrationality maintained and legiti-



mized by success.





22 Á p The proper and spontaneous adaption to new forms. The potential gift of conceptu-Recognition alizing spontaneously. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" Ä s The vanity to see transformation as a personal achievement rather than a socially



supported or natural phenomenon. The mental vanity that the gift of conceptualizing spontaneously can produce.





11 The sin of omission Transformation that requires retrogressive periods before renewal can take Transformation that requires retrogressive periods before renewal can take 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" place. place.



À p The will to triumph and in this case the faith that the end justifies the means. Inspira-



tion that demands a reassessment of past thinking before a rational concept can be established.



È s Self-delusion which unnaturally justifies periods of retrogression. Inspiration that



leads to an irrational focus on what is past.





24 24 25 T HE GATE OF THE SPIRIT OF THE SELF Channel 25-51 Initiation A design of needing to be first Harmonic Gate 51 The Arousing Œ 36 v 25 17 Center G w Œ Circuit Centering





Astrologic Position 28° 15' 00" Œ - 03° 52' 30" Q



The centering of a being depends on the quality of their innocence. The innocence is tested in the 'fire' of competi-tive energy. Despite the outward appearances the true competition is whether the Self can maintain its innocence despite circumstances. This is the gate of the Spiritual Warrior, the Shaman / Priestess. It is one of the four gates of the Cross of the Vessel, a gate of Love. Innocence is the gate of the Blood. It is the potential to love existence without discrimination. A flower can be loved as profoundly as a human. This quality of love is often projected as cool or cold. It is neither. The mystical potential of this love is transcendent and universal. The Spirit is always be-ing tested. This is the gate of scars, of the potential of being wounded. When the Warrior / Fool leaps into the void, it is Innocence that must land on its feet. The Spirit can be broken but triumph and survival enrich the spirit and result in the wonder of being.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE VESSEL OF LOVE INNOCENCE HEALING





25





INNOCENCE 25





THE PERFECTION OF ACTION THROUGH UNCONTRIVED AND SPONTANE-



OUS NATURE.





66 Ignorance False innocence betrayed by actions. False innocence betrayed by actions. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" Í p The least mild of a negative position, where inappropriate action is censured. The



loss of innocence through inappropriate action.



Ç s Constant inappropriate and destabilizing actions whose very counterproductiveness



strips away the facade of innocence. Constant inappropriate action in times of chal-lenges that can break the spirit.





55 Recuperation When innocence is sapped of its vitality, healing is the first priority. When innocence is sapped of its vitality, healing is the first priority. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Ã p The ability to recognize the inner meaning of an affliction and to withdraw until it is



healed. The power of the spirit to heal and be healed.



Å s Hypochondria and the need to be healed by others. The weakness of the spirit



which requires healing from others.





44 Survival The nature of true innocence can be maintained regardless of circumstances. The nature of true innocence can be maintained regardless of circumstances. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ã p The beauty of the rose in the garbage dump. Jupiter is also exalted. The highest



principles even amongst the greatest decadence. The spiritual warrior; the inno-cence maintained regardless of circumstances. No polarity.



s No planet in detriment.





33 Sensibility The recognition that innocent action does not in itself guarantee success. The recognition that innocent action does not in itself guarantee success. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Ä p The power of the ego to withstand failure and still maintain its nature. The power of



the spirit to withstand failure and shock.



É s The potential loss of innocence through misfortune that in the extreme can manifest



from crime to suicide. The potential loss of spirit through failure or shock.





22 The existentialist Devotion and dedication to the now. Devotion and dedication to the now. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Â p The perfection of the intellect through concentration and focus on what is, rather



than, what could be or has been. The innocence of the Self and its protection can only be maintained in the now.



Ä s A dedication that can never be free of personal motivation and its attendant projec-



tions. A lack of innocence in the now that risks protection through projection.





11 Selflessness Motiveless action. Motiveless action. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" È p The universalization of activity. Psychic attunement that is its own reward. The po-



tential for centering through attunement to challenges.



Â s A tendency to publicize one's selflessness. The insecurity of the Self manifested in



times of challenge.





25 25 26 THE GATE OF THE EGOIST Channel 26-44 Surrender A design of a transmitter Harmonic Gate 44 Coming to Meet ‰ 5 v 26 11 Center Heart w ‰ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 17° 00' 00" ‰ - 22° 37' 30" ‰



This is the gate of the Egoist. It is the gate of the Trickster. With the 44th gate, this gate is a specific gate of Mem-ory. This is the memory that can be manipulated. It is important to remember, that the Heart center is not aware. The manipulation of memory is inborn and a mechanic. 'Fools are liars and prophets too, for they can never know if what they say is true. They just have to wait and see. ' Every gate in Design is by its nature dualistic. From the mouth of the great liar can also come the great truth. This is the gate of the Ego's strength. This channel forms one of the main health networks in the body. The 26th gate is the gate of the Thymus Gland, where our Immune System is developed during our pre-natal phase. It is the only direct connection between the Ego and the Spleen and thusly can cleanse the ego and how its memory is applied.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF RULERSHIP (4) THE TRICKSTER CONFRONTATION (2)





26





THE TAMING POWER OF THE 26



GREAT





THE MAXIMIZATION OF THE POWER OF MEMORY APPLIED TO THE NUR-



TURING OF CONTINUITY.





66 Authority The natural attainment of influence justified by the correctness of actions. The natural attainment of influence justified by the correctness of actions. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" À p The embodiment of reason and purpose that passes the test of time. The strong



ego whose influence is justified by the correctness of its actions.



Á s Authority as a symbol and focus but not necessarily as a true embodiment. The



constitutional monarch, stripped of real power but still the symbol of the continuity of authority. The expression of the ego as a role whose influence is symbolic and lacks authority.





55 Ä p The understanding of mechanics and the application of energy to achieve maxi-Adaptability mum potential. The power of memory which maximizes the potential of the ego to 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" attract others.



Ã s A resistance and dissatisfaction when basic changes to nature are necessary. The



resistence of the egoist to adaption.





44 Censorship The alteration of memory through elimination. The alteration of memory through elimination. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" É p The ability through censorship to save the collectivity from itself. The power of the



ego maintained through forgetting.



Æ s The use of censorship to maintain the status quo; selective memory in fear of unre-



strained consequences. The power of the ego maintained through selective mem-ory.





33 Influence The ability, once prepared to gather support. The ability, once prepared to gather support. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" À p The authority to focus communal effort. The power of the ego to gather support



Æ s The leadership, while gathering support will underestimate potential challenges. The



egoist unable to recognize the potential challenges in others.





22 À p The energy and depth of reflection to learn from the past in anticipation of the fu-The lessons of his-ture. The power of the ego to mature through experience. tory É s The urge to take action despite the evidence of history. The failure of the ego to 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" respect experience.





11 È p The ability to enjoy the dreams engendered by accomplishment in order to avoid A bird in the hand the delusion of unlikely potential. The ego which transcends limitation through 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" dreaming.



Ä s Accomplishment as a licence for foolhardy risk taking. The refusal of the ego to be



satisfied.





26 26 27 THE GATE OF CARING Channel 27-50 Preservation A design of custodianship Harmonic Gate 50 The Cauldron ‚ 3 v 27 w 24 Center Sacral ‚ Circuit Defence





Astrologic Position 02° 00' 00" ‚ - 07° 37' 30" ‚



Without nourishment and caring, nothing can survive, particularly a Human Being, who is so vulnerable for so many years. This is the mirror of the pure sexuality of the 59th gate. This is a gate that is both a fuel and an ex-pression of sexuality. Through definition the power of the Sacral to move us is initiated. The drive to nourish is also in its polarity, the drive to be nourished or cared for. This need to be cared for, driven at the Sacral level can lead to all kinds of Sexual health problems. If it is accompanied by a lack of values from the harmonic gate 50, serious problems are possible. When the possibility of values and the expression of caring come together, we have the Channel of Preservation, a design of Custodianship. Those who preserve and protect. This is the gate of compas-sion, the power to care for the weak, the sick and the young and can be impressively altuistic in its manifestation, as in the case of Mother Teresa of Calcutta.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE UNEXPECTED CARING ALIGNMENT





27





NOURISHMENT 27





THE ENHANCEMENT OF THE QUALITY AND THE SUBSTANCE OF ALL AC-



TIVITIES THROUGH CARING.





66 Wariness A protection against an abuse of generosity. A protection against an abuse of generosity. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" Á p A practical and realistic approach to nurturing, whose appropriateness is guided by



feelings and instinct. The power and strength to be realistic in one's capacities to care and nurture.



É s A tendency to oversuspiciousness. The power of suspicion in limiting the expression



of caring.





55 The executor The ability to distribute effectively the resources of others. The ability to distribute effectively the resources of others. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Å p Either, the gifted and principled agent of distribution or the good sense and ability



to find one. The power and strength to care for the resources of others.



Æ s A restrictive nature that hampers distribution or the seeking of advice and assis-



tance. Weakness and the risk of loss of power restrict caring.





44 Generosity The natural sharing of attained abundance. The natural sharing of attained abundance. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Å p Magnanimous and qualitative sharing. The gift of rewarding those who are deserv-



ing. The power and strength to share generously.



Ä s Indiscriminate sharing. The potential loss of power and strength through indiscrimi-



nate sharing.





33 Greed The obsession with having much more than one needs. The obsession with having much more than one needs. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" É p Here, the psychological manifestation. The obsession and dependency on knowing



what is hidden. The secret policeman. The power derived in having more than one needs, whether sexually, mentally, or materially.



Ä s Mundane and wholly without redeeming value, greed, a lust that inevitably cripples



and addicts. The lust for power to get more than one needs.





22 Self-sufficiency The obvious law that to give, one must have. The obvious law that to give, one must have. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" Á p The Mother. The great nourisher. The strength to nurture and the power to care.



Ä s The child depleting the resources of others. Weakness that can sap the strength and



power of others.





11 À p The ego-driven first law of caring for oneself which is not necessarily at the expense Selfishness of others. The power to care for oneself first. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Í s Envy and its attendant misfortunes. The power of selfishness that is manifested



through envy.





27 27 28 THE GATE OF THE GAME PLAYER Channel 28-38 Struggle A design of stubbornness Harmonic Gate 38 Opposition ˆ 50 v 28 44 Center Spleen w ˆ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 02° 00' 00" ˆ - 07° 37' 30" ˆ ˆ



The Spleen is the home of our oldest and only existential awareness, our body consciousness, the 'gut' feeling. The 28th gate is a conceptualizing gate, the first step of any awareness process. The potential of intuition is to know in the now, whether it is of value to struggle or not. Where the mechanical fighter will not listen, the game player must. The fear of this gate is of death. The challenge is life itself. The development of intuitional potential is based on trial and error. Being a part of the Knowing Circuit, this is a deeply individual process. The risks are al-ways taken alone and so are the consequences. The individual in society is the key to direction, but that role is fraught with difficulties. Any change in direction is the direct result of Mutation, the Format (3 / 60) of this circuit. If the mutation is going to be successful and replace the old with the new, the Tribe and the Collective must be con-vinced of its value. The knower who does not know what knowing to fight for, or how to fight for it, will face enor-mous resistance.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE UNEXPECTED (3) RISKS ALIGNMENT (2)





28





PREPONDERANCE OF THE GREAT 28





THE TRANSITORINESS OF POWER AND INFLUENCE.





66 Blaze of glory Sacrifice rather than capitulation to the law of deterioration. Sacrifice rather than capitulation to the law of deterioration. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" É p Regeneration and renewal no matter what the price. The deep intuitive drive to win



no matter what the cost.



È s Self-destruction. The deep intuitive fear of defeat and a potentially profound hope-



lessness in times of struggle.





55 Treachery The abuse of trust. The abuse of trust. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" É p The manipulation of the collective, that while pitting one faction against the other,



does not directly support or reject either. The intuitive capacity of the game player to provoke struggle amongst others.



À s The breaking of alliances with trusted forces to align with more powerful forces and



its attendant destabilization of the whole. The intuitive recognition in times of strug-gle to know when alliances must be broken and its destabilizing effect on others.





44 Holding on The ability through whatever means to keep one's grip. The ability through whatever means to keep one's grip. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Å p The application of knowledge to exploit opportunities and usually for the greater



good. A depth of intuition at its best in struggle and often of value to others.



Â s The application of intelligence to hold on, exclusively out of self-interest. A depth of



intuition that is stubbornly selfish in its capacity to hold on.





33 Adventurism Unfounded risk taking. Unfounded risk taking. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Æ p A basic conservatism that even in adventurous acts is necessarily prudent. An intui-



tive caution in risk taking in times of struggle.



Å s Here a perverse manifestation of Jupiter's expansiveness where risk taking is ra-



tionalized and failure ensured. Intuitive rationalizing of risk taking in times of struggle.





22 Shaking hands with Distasteful alliance. Distasteful alliance. À p A means, however unsavoury, that is justified by its end. When the game turns to a the devil struggle, the intuitive acceptance of any alliance in order to win. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" Å s The anxiety engendered by sacrificing higher principles when there is no guarantee



of success. The risk in sacrificing principles when there is no guarantee of victory.





11 Ä p The desire to be effective manifested in the application of energy to detail. The intui-Preparation tion to potentially apply energy to detail. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Ã s The aesthetic appreciation of planning that may have no real application. An intui-



tion for detail without the potential for application.





28 28 29 THE GATE OF SAYING YES Channel 46-29 Discovery A design of succeeding where others fail Harmonic Gate 46 Pushing Upward … 4 v 29 59 Center Sacral w … Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 24° 30' 00" … - 00° 07' 30" † †



This is the Tantric energy to empower the Determination of the Self. It is the gate of the Sacral saying, 'Yes'. This is the fuel to perservere despite the circumstances. This is the gate of loading up on piles of commitments and re-sponsibilities so there will be something to perservere about. The trick is to say yes to what is correct. The secret, as always with this Circuit, is waiting. This power to perservere is conditioned directly by the Format energy. Perserverance is also cyclical and what we are commited to one day, may no longer be of interest the next. The wave dominates. This center is not aware and the mechanical drive to say yes can be overwhelming. It is essential to remember, that experientially, what one commits oneself to, must be completed. After all, this is the energy of the channel of Discovery and the discovery does not lie in the commitment but in the process.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONTAGEN (3) COMMITMENT INDUSTRY (2)





29





THE ABYSMAL 29





THE DEEP WITHIN THE DEEP. PERSISTENCE DESPITE DIFFICULTIES HAS



ITS INEVITABLE REWARDS.





66 Confusion The state that exists when momentum outstrips awareness. The state that exists when momentum outstrips awareness. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ä p Driving blind and given Mars' energy and determination, often blind luck. The power



to persevere that makes no sense.



Å s A tendency in confusion to withdraw rather than accept the condition and continue



to persevere. The power in confusion to caution rather than saying yes.





55 Overreach The tendency to bite off more than one can chew. The tendency to bi te off more than one can chew. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" À p The Sun exalted, where the drive is in the design and not ambition driven. The un-



controllable drive to say yes.



Í s Failed ambition. Saying yes, overextending one's resources, and failing to persevere.





44 Directness The shortest distance between two points is a straight line. The shortest distance between two points is a straight line. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" Æ p The wisdom to use the simplest and most direct approach to solve difficulties. The



power to commit oneself to the simplest and most direct process.



Ã s Simplicity and directness all too often seen as inharmonic and aesthetically crude.



The power of directness often offends others.





33 Evaluation In this context, properly assessed inaction. In this context, properly assessed inaction. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Ä p Despite the urge and cost of inaction the knowledge that it is sometimes better to



fight another day. The power to wait.



Å s A preference for withdrawal in principle with little regard for effect. The inability to



make commitments. The power of caution.





22 Assessment Persistence tempered by caution. Persistence tempered by caution. 25° 16' 15" - 26° 22' 30" À p The power of sustainment as a guiding light. Saying yes and the power to persevere.



Ã s A tendency to overcautiousness when persistence is perceived as adding to rather



than ending disharmony. Caution in saying yes, when perseverance leads to dis-harmony.





11 The draftee The ability to adapt to struggle when necessary but not as a permanent state. The ability to adapt to struggle when necessary but not as a permanent state. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 16' 15" Ä p The innate nature to apply energy in times of war and peace. The power to perse-



vere when necessary but not generally.



È s A deep impressionability whose mark from times of struggle may make a return to



normal conditions extremely difficult. Hesitation in making commitments based on past experience.





29 29 30 T HE GATE OF RECOGNITION OF FEELINGS Channel 30-41 Recognition A design of focused energy Harmonic Gate 41 Decrease ‹ 49 v 30 w 55 Center Solar Plexus ‹ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 24° 30' 00" ‹ - 00° 07' 30" Œ



This gate of Feeling is the Emotional equivalent of mental realization. Like its mirror, the 18th gate, the gate of conditioning from the parents , the 30th is the gate of Fate. Feeling is a thirst for destiny and a hunger for change. Just as judgment leads to the conceptual potential to correct, the recognized feeling leads to the conceptual po-tential for change. However, there are distinct differences. Judgment and the capacity to correct take place in the now or not. Recognition of the potential for change takes place in the wave. The emotional wave moves from pain to hope, and the true potential of emotional awareness lies between these highly energetic poles. It is important to realize, that only emotional awareness has direct access to the Throat that is by its very nature energized. The feeling for change must move through the wave. The feeling of Pain which initiates the yearning for change and a cursing of the Fates. The feeling of Hope which initiates the yearning for change and prays to the Fates. The po-tential awareness that can recognize the feeling and leaves its outcome in the hands of the Fates.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONTAGEN FATES INDUSTRY





30





THE CLINGING FIRE 30





FREEDOM RECOGNIZED AS AN ILLUSION AND LIMITATION ACCEPTED AS A



FATE.





66 Enforcement The discipline to maintain right action. The discipline to maintain right action. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ä p The assertiveness to purge the inferior while accepting to lead the weak. The



strength to eliminate negative feelings.



Á s An inherent peacefulness that all too often will abide the presence of inferior forces.



A lack of strength in eliminating negative feelings.





55 Irony Recognition and dedication to transitory goals. Recognition and dedication to transitory goals. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" Å p The strength derived from knowledge and experience that two steps forward and



one step back, is still one step forward. Each new feeling brings back an old feeling before progress can take place.



É s The anger engendered by the irony, frustration with its limitations and a desire to



eliminate the entire process. Frustration and anger with the old feelings brought into the emotional awareness with each new experience.





44 Burnout An unrealistic pace that begs misfortune. An unrealistic pace that begs misfortune. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" É p A compulsive and hyperactive nature that carries all the earmarks of burnout but



doesn't necessarily arrive at it. A positive outcome is often assisted through analy-sis. Highly energized feelings that may lead to emotional collapse.



Å s Uncontrollable expansion with the inevitable bursting of the bubble. Uncontrollable



feelings and accompanying emotional outbursts.





33 Resignation The acceptance of what is. The acceptance of what is. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" É p The awareness and manifestation of the law of regeneration. The laws of Karma,



reincarnation and resurrection. The feeling to accept what is.



Å s The tendency by its very knowledge to encourage or avoid despair. The positive or



negative feelings which come with acceptance of what is.





22 Pragmatism The balance between extremes. The balance between extremes. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" À p The productive application of energy without wastage. Not wasting energy on feel-



ings.



Ä s Overaggressiveness that chafes against limitations. Feelings which demand energy.





11 Composure Balance in the face of disorder. Balance in the face of disorder. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" À p The maximization of limitation in all cases. Stability through feelings, no matter what



the situation.



Å s The ability to maintain composure but at the expense of progress. Balanced through



feelings but unable to let go of them.





30 30 31 THE GATE OF LEADING Channel 31-7 The Alpha For 'good' or 'bad' the design of leadership Harmonic Gate 7 The Army … 56 v 31 w 33 Center Throat … Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 02° 00' 00" … - 07° 37' 30" … …



The Throat has its many voices, here it says, 'I lead'. This is the gate of manifesting influence. This is not a gate of primary action. Gates of the Throat that can be defined directly to a motor, are a minority (20>34, 45>21, 12>22 and 35>36). The remaining seven gates are primarly for verbal manifestation. 'I lead' often is little more then a verbal claim.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE UNEXPECTED (2) INFLUENCE THE ALPHA





31





INFLUENCE 31





THE LAW OF FRICTION, WHETHER ACTIVE OR PASSIVE, THAT ENGEN-



DERS TRANSFERENCE AND THUS INFLUENCE.





66 À p Actions which match the words and thus guarantees success. Leadership whose Application expression and action must be one and the same. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" Á s A superficiality in application that borders on hypocrisy and is justifiably treated



accordingly. The hypocrisy according to leading in words but not action.





55 Self-righteousness Lack of external influence guaranteed by attitude. Lack of external influence guaranteed by attitude. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" É p A natural specialization that only develops in isolation. However, when the devel-



opment is complete, the extremely difficult and generally impossible task of exter-nalizing the influence. A specialization that demands that one leads oneself.



Á s A deep focus on personal experience that is self-fulfilling and has no external ambi-



tions. A lack of ambition where one is content to lead oneself.





44 Intent The success of influence based on how it is perceived. The success of influence based on how it is perceived. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Á p Public acknowledgment of a nurturing and protective influence. External positive



recognition of one's capacity to lead.



Ä s Perceived ego aggrandizement and attempted manipulation. External negative pro-



jection of one's capacity to lead.





33 À p The ability to carefully assess and choose the proper influence and to tailor one's Selectivity behaviour accordingly. The capacity to lead enhanced through association with the 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" proper influences.



Å s Qualitative selectivity with the risk of a runaway enthusiasm that may lead to hu-



miliation. The drive to lead that will accept any follower and the risks.





22 Arrogance Independent action without guidance. Independent action without guidance. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" Å p The dedication to higher principles that cannot wait for consensus. Leadership that



cannot wait for consensus.



Â s A reasoned arrogance that out of nervous tension jumps the gun and often misfires.



The drive for expression that cannot wait and may cost leadership.





11 Manifestation IInfluence cannot exist in a vacuum. nfluence cannot exist in a vacuum. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" À p The Sun does not/cannot hold back its light and thus its influence on every life. The



natural expresion of leadership.



Í s The absorption of light, that in darkness can only promise manifestation. The un-



natural expression of leadership.





31 31 32 THE GATE OF CONTINUITY Channel 32-54 Transformation A design of being driven Harmonic Gate 54 The Marrying Maiden ‡ 57 v 32 w 50 Center Spleen ‡ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 20° 45' 00" ‡ - 26° 22' 30" ‡ ‡



The awareness potential is the instinct to adapt in the now without losing continuity. This is the gate of Duration, where all of our instinctive imprinting is rooted. By its nature, it is extremely conservative. Where the Sensitivity Stream is social and communal, the Instinctive Stream is social and individual. Rooted in the Splenic system, it is first and foremost about individual survival on the material plane. It will not rush to embrace a revolution, but if it succeeds and is established in the general community, then it will instinctly adapt, maintaining its basic nature. This is the potential awareness of what can or cannot be transformed. It is the brake on the drive of the 54. What is transformed and stored as instinctive memory, determines the ultimate strength of the Ego. Each gate of the Splenic Center has an underlying fear, here, it is the fear of failure. It can be a gate of prolonged indecision, the conservative reliance agonizing over the risks of being driven towards transformation.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF MAIA (3) CONSERVATION LIMITATION (2)





32





DURATION 32





THE ONLY THING WHICH ENDURES IS CHANGE.





66 Tranquillity The need to calmly face impermanence. The need to calmly face impermanence. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" É p An underlying acceptance of change that may or may not lead to tranquillity. The



instinctive awareness to accept change and transformation.



È s Impermanence as proof of meaninglessness with its attendant manifestations, de-



pression, delusion, and in the extreme, self-destruction. The fear engendered when change is experienced as impermanence, and the potential for depression.





55 Flexibility Easy adaption to circumstances. Easy adaption to circumstances. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" Á p The Moon exalted, where superficiality is a valuable tool that while masking the



inner light permits adaption to prevailing conditions. An instinct for adaption in times of change.



Ä s The urge to express oneself in direct and often violent rejection of conformity. The



potential of the instinct to reject adaption and conformity in times of change.





44 Å p Even in times of change certain underlying principles endure. The instinct to main-Right is might tain one's principles in times of change. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Æ s Where Jupiter will establish right action in the larger social realm, Saturn's will lead



to inner strength and endurance as long as it is not threatened from the outside. The instinct to maintain one's principles as long as one's security is not threatened.





33 Â p Indecision and persistent reevaluation, that only because of its basic intelligence Lack on continuity manages to endure. Indecision in times of transformation. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Å s An overreliance on traditionally legitimized standards that in times of change can be



totally out of step and suffer unexpected humiliation. A lack of instinct in times of transformation.





22 Ã p The control of power for the benefit and enhancement of harmony. The potential for Restraint transformation that may be beneficial to others. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" Å s A tendency in frustration, particularly from a position of strength, to social with-



drawal rather than persistent control. The frustration with controls or being con-trolled.





11 À p A life sustaining respect and attention to all aspects of a process. The potential to Conservation develop the instinct through detailed attention to a process. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ä s The uncontrollable urge to bypass essentials which inevitably leads to the disruption



of continuity. The fear of lack of potential, and the corresponding lack of attention.





32 32 33 THE GATE OF PRIVACY Channel 33-13 The Prodigal The design of the witness Harmonic Gate 13 The Fellowship of Man … 31 33 7 Center Throat v w … Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 07° 37' 30" … - 13° 15' 00" … …



The Throat has many voices, here it says, 'I remember'. It is the voice of the Witness captured in the biblical story of the prodigal child, who leaves home and gives up their birthright to wander and learn and then returns many years later much the wiser to be accepted back into the fold so that the wisdom garnered in the experience can be shared through rememberance. This is the expression of the Sensing Circuit. This is the gate of Retreat, of the need for privacy. Before a new cycle can begin, a period of reflection on the old is necessary. Unlike the 13th gate, where the secrets are locked away in memory, the 33rd gate is in the Throat and its nature is to share its experience and to reveal the secrets. This is the gate of revelation. Despite what appears to be an ordeal, the Sensing Circuit is of enormous value to Human Progress. The storing of cultural memory has resulted in the ex-ponential expansion of Human capacity. Without the storyteller or the historian, every new generation would have to start from scratch.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE FOUR WAYS (2) RETREAT REFINEMENT





33





RETREAT 33





ACTIVE WITHDRAWAL AND THE TRANSFORMATION OF A WEAK POSITION



INTO A STRENGTH.





66 Disassociation The ability to let go. The ability to let go. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" À p The will to concentrate on revitalization and not be handicapped by persistent re-



criminations. The ability to let go in retreat, to enjoy privacy.



Å s The ability to shed the larger framework that precipitated the retreat, leaving nag-



ging doubts that hamper revitalization. The inability to completely let go.





55 É p As important as the timing itself, is the ability to keep secret one's intentions until the Timing appropriate moment. The ability to keep one's intentions secret. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Å s The tendency to want others to participate in the selection of the timing, which can



lead to confusion. Without a sense of timing, letting others in on the secret prema-turely with resulting confusion.





44 Dignity A lack of turmoil in retreat. A lack of turmoil in retreat. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" É p The underlying faith in resurrection that turns retreat into an opportunity for renewal



and regeneration. The healthy retreat for regeneration.



È s Without the guiding light of resurrection, the inevitable dissolution that leads to de-



generation. Forced to retreat, and unable to see its regenerative qualities.





33 Spirit The attitude that turns retreat into victory. The attitude that turns retreat into victory. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Å p The responsible and principled retreat based on preservation but with the determi-



nation to persevere. Privacy as a path to success.



Ä s A lack of responsibility in retreat. The bridge burner. A drive for privacy that will cut



off its relationships, often abruptly.





22 Å p The recognition that surrender to superior forces can be an opportunity to expand Surrender one's own strengths and eventually triumph. Embracing powerful forces in order to 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" lay the foundation for future success.



È s Unlike the reasoned and calculated surrender above, the deeper and personal sur-



render. The feeling that one's original position was a delusion and the impression-ability that makes might right. A public embrace of powerful forces, and a private resentment of their power.





11 À p The wisdom in a weak position to recognize that survival demands complete with-Avoidance drawal. Retreating when one realizes that they are in a weak position. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" Ä s Where courage is just plain foolishness. Unable to retreat when overwhelmed by



stimulation.





33 33 34 THE GATE OF POWER , A design of an archetype Channel 34-57 Power 20-34 Charisma , A design where thoughts must be deeds 10-34 Exploration , A design of following one's 14 v 34 w 9 convictions ‰ Harmonic Gates 57 The Gentle





20 Contemplation 10 Treading

Center Sacral

Circuit Centering

Astrologic Position 00° 07' 30" ‰ - 05° 45' 00" ‰

The only purely asexual gate out of the Sacral center. This is a gate of pure unconditioned power. It is power ready for display, available for use. The 34th gate is one of the four gates of the Integration Channels (20,10 & 57). As energy, it is powerful enough to fuel three different channels (Power, Charisma & Exploration). Such power is never to be underesti-mated. This is the essential fuel of Individuation. The Sacral is second only to the Throat Center in complexity. Like the Throat, it both moves us and provides us with a voice. The movement is rooted in what is termed 'sex drive'. It is in fact a repetitive frequency. The defined Sacral takes its blind walks, shuffles its papers and cleans the house compulsively. This is frequency and not the metamorphosis possible through the Throat. The Sacral also has its voices, the moans and sighs. The 34th gate is the grunting / growling voice. The power to be independent and the energy of conviction.

It is the Power of the Great which determines whether Individuation can be maintained. This is an enormous energy re-source and not aware. Its power allows it to fuel three different channels. The empowerment of the Human Archetype is its primary function and the definition to 57 is essential. This power without the guidance of awareness can wreck havoc. It is through the Channel of Charisma, a design where thoughts must become deeds, that its destabilizing impact is so common. The power of 34 is relentless, when defined to the Throat, it must manifest. Charisma is what we call the re-lease of Individual Power in the Now. In the design keynote, the term 'thoughts' is used. Do not misinterpret this illusion to the mind only. It is in fact a reference to any of the three awareness centers (Ajna / Mind, Spleen / Body and Solar Plexus / Spirit). The Channel of Charisma not defined to an Awareness center is open to conditioning from any awareness and in the instant of identification with the awareness, it will turn the awareness into deeds. The irony is that charismatic indi-viduals, who seem to epitomize personal power, are so often profoundly manipulated in their lives.

THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SLEEPING PHOENIX (4) POWER DUALITY (2)





34





THE POWER OF THE GREAT 34





POWER IS ONLY GREAT WHEN ITS DISPLAY OR USE SERVES THE COM-



MON GOOD.





66 Common sense Knowing when enough is enough. Knowi ng when enough is enough. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Í p The good sense when having bitten off more than one can chew to spit part of it



out. The restriction of the release of power when one does not have the strength to maintain it.



Å s Enthusiasm overriding better judgment, invariably leads to complications. The lack



of restrictions that can sap one's strength.





55 Annihilation The total elimination of resistance. The total elimination of resistance. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Ä p The power to destroy completely and once this is accomplished, the ability to trans-



fer the power to normal purposes. The resistance to release power other than when necessary.



Á s A difficulty in shedding the patterns established to deal with resistance. Symbolized



by its phases, the feeling that nothing is permanently annihilated. The discomfort with the need to always release power.





44 Triumph The freedom in absolute victory to unlimited use of power. The freedom in absolute victory to unlimited use of power. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" É p A tendency in victory to restrain excessive power in favour of more subtle and covert



styles. The inherent confidence to use power subtly.



Ä s Ego gratification in the unrestrained use of power with impunity, inevitably leading to



abuse. A lack of confidence that can lead to abuse of power.





33 Machismo The indiscriminate display of power. The indiscriminate display of power. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Æ p The great malefic, where machismo unfortunately is invariably backed up by power



This is an exaltation only in that it is natural and not contrived. The display of power that defines any role.



Â s A reasoned and calculated display. The communication of disinformation. The cal-



culated display of power in order to define the role.





22 Ä p The ability, when victory is in sight, not to loose perspective. The power that grows Momentum when victory is in sight. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ã s A tendency to be emotionally carried away by the smell of victory. The power for



growth limited by impatience.





11 The bully The indiscriminate use of power. The indiscriminate use of power. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Æ p The less negative, the resort to power as a manifestation of frustration. The energy



to display power as a response to frustration.



É s The comeuppance that is the inevitable destiny of the bully. The ever present risk of



retaliation to power displays.





34 34 35 THE GATE OF CHANGE Channel 35-36 Transitoriness A design of a 'Jack of all Trades' Harmonic Gate 36 The Darkening of the Light ƒ 16 v 35 45 Center Throat w ƒ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 11° 22' 30" ƒ - 17° 00' 00" ƒ ƒ



The Sensing Circuit is rooted in its format of cyclical energy. It always requires beginnings, middles and ends. The 35th gate is a key to this energy functioning properly. This is a gate of change conditioned by the cycle. This is the gate of satiating the appetite for change. This is the expression of the Channel of Transitoriness, a design of a Jack of all Trades. Like its mirror, the 16th gate of skills, the 35th gate is experientially talented. Its voice says, 'I feel' and usually, 'I feel it's time for a change. ' This is the channel of expectations but there is no light at the end of this tunnel, none. 'I feel if I do this, I'll get that' is not a formula and an expression of fact. It is a hope that will al-ways lead to pain. This is not a design that can afford to be goal oriented. This is a gate of the 'wheel' turning.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS (2) EXPERIENCE SEPARATION





35





PROGRESS 35





BY DESIGN, PROGRESS CANNOT EXIST IN A VACUUM AND IS DEPENDENT



ON INTERACTION.





66 Rectification The energy to correct. The energy to correct. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Æ p The process of crystallization coupled with ambition that assures timely and effec-



tive correction. Progressive change that results from correction.



Ä s A destructive tendency that in its personal application may be the necessary sever-



ity to ensure correction but when applied generally, it will meet with resistance and tend to reinforce rather than rectify situations. Correction which brings change through severity and even destruction, and will always meet resistance.





55 Altruism The sacrifice of personal for communal progress. The sacrifice of personal for communal progress. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Â p The principles of interaction and harmony communicated successfully for the bene-



fit of the whole. Progressive communication that can bring beneficial change to the whole.



Å s Jupiter in detriment, though altruistic and cooperative in general, a personal regret



that in interaction a greater personal expansion had been lost. Progressive commu-nication, but always the sense that personal progress has been sacrificed.





44 Hunger The insatiable appetite for progress. The insatiable appetite for progress. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Á p Less severe. Symbolized by the phases of the Moon, the drive may be obsessive



when the Moon is full, but like the fading of the Moon the obsession abates. Change for change's sake. The drive lessens with age.



Ä s The abuse of position to accumulate perks with the inevitable retribution from those



unfairly deprived. The drive for progress that will ultimately step on toes and lead to recrimination.





33 Collaboration The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Å p Benefic encouragement of others that expands personal as well as communal pro-



gress. The ability to bring progressive change into other's lives.



À s The need to be the center that ignores the importance of others. The need to be the



center for progress.





22 Creative block Lack of inspiration which stops progress. Lack of inspiration which stops progress. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Ã p Attunement with the vagaries of the muse and the recognition, creativity is energy



that ebbs and flows. Creativity and the muse will always come and go.



Á s The need to take action, however mundane, to overcome the feeling of emptiness.



The actions being uninspired do not further progress. The need for change and the fear of stasis.





11 Humility The ability to accept rejection. The ability to accept rejection. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Ã p The artist that accepts rejection as part of the process. Acceptance of change and



rejection as part of the process.



È s A self-destructive reaction to rejection. Loss of worth. Change and rejection as hu-



miliation.





35 35 36 THE GATE OF CRISIS Channel 35-36 Transitoriness A design of a 'Jack of all Trades' Harmonic Gate 35 Progress Œ 22 v 36 w 25 Center Solar Plexus Œ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 22° 37' 30" Œ - 28° 15' 00" Œ



The potential of recognition through feelings leads to the possibility of change. No gates are under greater pres-sure then 22 Grace and 36 The Darkening of the Light. These are the only two conceptualizing gates which have direct access to the throat and can manifest directly as Action. Since it is emotional energy, the Pain&Hope wave that conditions this definition rather than the possible emotional awareness that lies within the wave, the outcome is often destabilizing for the individual and for others. Only in this way is the 36th gate the gate of crisis. Change and changes in feeling are natural to the Abstract process. This is an experiental circuit. The ultimate role is to be a witness, to remember and reflect. The shift of feelings determines the ending of a cycle, nothing more, but this can only be recognized through awareness. The energy overwhelms this possibility, and change becomes either something that is dreaded or embraced and fuels a life of expectations and inevitable crises.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EDEN CRISIS THE PLANE





36





THE DARKENING OF THE LIGHT 36





THE RULE OF CYCLES IN WHICH DECLINE IS A NATURAL BUT NOT ENDUR-



ING STAGE.





66 Justice The inevitable survival of right. The inevitable survival of right. 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" Å p The knowledge and attendant faith that the powers of darkness eventually destroy



themselves. 'Those whom the Gods wish to destroy, they first make mad.' The cor-rectness of crisis when it arises out of pure feelings.



Æ s A profound sorrow and cynicism, that is not diminished by the understanding, that



darkness is self-annihilating. The sorrow or cynicism that comes with seeing that despite the correctness of the feelings, there is always crisis.





55 É p Perfected survival regardless of conditions. Immunity to crisis as both generator and The underground survivor. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Â s A nervousness that can lead to self-betrayal. Self-betraying nervousness in times of



crisis.





44 É p The ability to prepare for and anticipate decline through the accumulation of secret Espionage or privileged information. The realization that knowledge both covert and esoteric is 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" necessary, if one is to be prepared for crisis and change.



Á s The tendency in recognizing the strengths of the opposition to accept the inevitabil-



ity of decline and rather than resist, to offer one's services to guarantee survival. The double agent. Crisis knowledge that is available to others for a price.





33 Transition The point at which decline has exhausted its power. The point at which decline has exhausted its power. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" É p The ability to establish a new order out of the ashes of the old. The emotional depth



to endure crisis and embrace change.



Å s The tendency in renewal to try to assimilate the remains of the old order into the



new with the risk that it may rise against the new order once it has regained its strengths. The embrace of the change, but with feelings that will not let go of the past.





22 Support Assistance to others in times of decline. Assistance to others in times of decline. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" È p The application of imagination to schemes which benefit others. Feelings that can



benefit others in times of crisis.



Á s The more practical and individual assistance but only when unavoidable and not as



a general principle. Selective assistance in times of crisis.





11 Ä p The energy and determination to persevere in the face of opposition. The emotional Resistance power to handle crisis. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Å s An over-principled resistance that rather than being selective in resistance and thus



less at risk, will maintain normal patterns and incur opposition. A resistance to change that will always bring crisis.





36 36 37 THE GATE OF FRIENDSHIP Channel 37-40 Community A design of being a part seeking a whole Harmonic Gate 40 Deliverance Œ 55 v 37 w 63 Center Solar Plexus Œ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 05° 45' 00" Œ - 11° 22' 30" Œ



This is the most communal of all the gates. It is the transpersonal expression of the potential sensitivity of Revolu-tion. This gate is also the focusing of sensitivity for communal expression. This gate is the possibility to offer sup-port and friendship to others. The Tribal Circuit group (Ego and Defense) are the most intensely social. They es-tablish, support and maintain our communities. Once the sexual imperative has been satisfied (Defense), the community is an essential development. Sensitivity, biologically is about food. The Tribe must be fed. The 37th gate is the gate of the Mouth. The friendship offered by this gate can never be free of an underlying bargain. It is always seeking loyalty and looking for a promise of loyalty in return. The wave of emotional awareness leads to the hope and pain cycle of friendships, loyalty/ disloyalty, promise/broken promise. This is the gate of the Sense of Touch. It is the outstretched arms ready to embrace the outsider. The possibility of awareness in this gate lies in the 'touch' not in the energy to embrace.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PLANNING BARGAINS MIGRATION





37





THE FAMILY 37





THE MANIFESTATION MACRO- AND MICRO-COSMICALLY OF THE ORGANIC



NATURE OF COMMUNITIES.





66 Purpose The energy to maintain the family is enhanced by recognizing its values. The energy to maintain the family is enhanced by recognizing its values. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Ã p The gift of not only recognizing the inner meaning of the family but an appreciation



for its values. The possibility of extending friendships through the appreciation of its value.



Â s A need for diversity that may ignore the achievements of the family in favour of



withdrawal. The need for diversity that despite appreciation will prefer casual friend-ships.





55 Love Natural and unaffected devotion to the family. Natural and unaffected devotion to the family. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ã p Natural harmony and perfected sharing. Natural harmony and sharing possible



through friendship.



Ä s Emotional dependency that often turns love into hatred. The possibility of depend-



ency turning love into hate.





44 Leadership by ex- Any member of the family may take on a leading role through exemplary b Any member of the family may take on a leading role through exemplar y be- e- haviour. haviour. ample Á p The manifestation of the highest principles in everyday and practical affairs. The 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" possibility of the highest principles in all relationships resulting in a leadership role.



Æ s A conservatism that generally only accepts the leadership of the father, who may or



may not be a valued role model. The possibility of being insensitive to the leadership of anyone other than those accepted by tradition.





33 Evenhandedness The success of any group is dependent on maintaining order. The success of any group is dependent on main taining order. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" Å p The ability to judge what behaviour is appropriate and to react in a balanced man-



ner to transgressions. The possibility to have the sensitivity to know what behaviour is appropriate in a relationship.



Ä s An ironic tendency to either test incessantly the borders of acceptability or to re-



spond to the very same tendency in others with severity. The possible lack of sensi-tivity to what behaviour is appropriate.





22 Å p The understanding of the principle of individual responsibility as the foundation for Responsibility successful cooperation. The possibility of friendship through individual responsibility. 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" Â s A tendency to point out the responsibility of others. The possibility that friendship will



lead to pointing out the responsibilities of others.





11 The mother/father A position of inherent respect that ensures a focus for the development of A position of inherent respect that ensures a focus for the development of 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" guidelines. guidelines.



Ã p Harmony is the key to the successful maintenance of relationships. It is only through



harmony that the beauty and the values of the family can endure. Friendship that is rooted in sensitivity and ensures harmony. No polarity.



s No planet in detriment.





37 37 38 THE GATE OF THE FIGHTER Channel 38-28 Struggle A design of stubbornness Harmonic Gate 28 Preponderance of the Great Š 58 v 38 w 54 Center Root Š Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 09° 30' 00" Š - 15° 07' 30" Š Š



The Root is a Pressure Center, not an Awareness. The Fuel to fight, to struggle is an energy. The Stream of Intui-tion begins in this gate. The channels which connect the Root to the Spleen are by their nature difficult while at the same time being healthy.

The Spleen is a center of underlying fears. This fuel to fight is the essential energy necessary to combat our fear of death. This channel is about the struggle to know that life is of value. Since this is a fuel of the Knowing Circuit, the struggle ultimately is individual. Often the fighter is shunned as an outsider and their struggling, deeply misunder-stood. Through the 38th Gate, we have the pressure to challenge, met in the 28th Gate, by the willingness to play. Through the definition the game playing can become very serious, even life threatening, see 28. 6 Neptune in detriment. Here, it is the stubbornness which can overcome the odds. Remember that the Splenic center is our center for well being. To have this definition, to be stubborn, to struggle, is ultimately healthy. If it is your design, then struggle is the only way to know.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF TENSION (4) OPPOSITION INDIVIDUALISM (2)





38





OPPOSITION 38





THE ABILITY TO PRESERVE INDIVIDUAL INTEGRITY THROUGH OPPOSITION



TO DETRIMENTAL FORCES .





66 Misunderstanding Opposition without basis. Opposition without basis. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Æ p Eventual crystallization which clears up misunderstandings. Energy which attracts



misunderstanding, and the stubbornness to face opposition.



Í s The recognition that misunderstanding is at the root of opposition but the insis-



tence, that it is the misunderstanding of the opposing forces. Where misunderstand-ing is at the root of struggle, the energy of stubbornness to insist and maintain one's position.





55 Alienation A stage in opposition when one is totally isolated. A stage in opposition when one is totally isolated. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Æ p The ambition and concentration to endure. The energy to stubbornly fight alone.



É s Alienation experienced as painful confinement that by its very nature blinds one to



the possibility that there are those at some point who may come to one's aid. The energy for stubbornness is so strong that it is difficult to recognize, that there are others that can help in times of struggle.





44 Investigation Analysis which strengthens opposition. Analysis which strengthens opposition. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" É p The detective who develops or the insider who accepts a joint opposition whose



success can only be based on trust. The energy to recognize who can be of value in times of struggle.



Ä s The aggressiveness in opposition that prejudices investigation and limits trustwor-



thiness. The power of adrenalin to provoke aggressiveness.





33 À p The ability to sustain through integration with similar forces, thus ensuring the vitality Alliance to persevere. The energy to integrate with others in times of struggle. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Í s Selfish alliance which saps the energy of one's partners, in order to ensure personal



vitality. The energy to selfishly use others in times of struggle.





22 Politeness Opposition that does not transgress normal codes of behaviour. Opposition that does not transgress normal codes of behaviour. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" É p The value of discretion. The energy for the intuitive awareness for discretion.



Á s An over-politeness that is both servile and obviously superficial and defeats its very



purpose. The energy for over-politeness in times of struggle.





11 Qualification Tempering opposition based on the circumstances. Tempering opposition based on the cir cumstances. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" È p A psychic attunement that guarantees proper action. The psychic gift of knowing



when and how to fight.



Ä s The tendency to oppose as a general rule. The drive to fight as a general rule.





38 38 39 THE GATE OF THE PROVOCATEUR Channel 39-55 Emoting A design of moodiness Harmonic Gate 55 Abundance „ 52 v 39 w 53 Center Root „ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 09° 30' 00" „ - 15° 07' 30" „



Like its mirror, the 38th gate of the Fighter (they are in exact opposition in the Zodiac), Obstruction is a combative fuel. Sometime between the birth of Buddha and Jesus, the Solar Plexus Center began to evolve into our third Awareness center. The Awareness of the 'Spirit'. Rarely experienced in our time, Emotional Awareness is our col-lective destiny. The energy to provoke is an essential ingredient It is in the design that the individual must fight, is provoked and must provoke to find the spirit. The provocateur is seeking out the spirit, trying to provoke it into expression. Since this gate is always looking for its spirit, this fuel also gives it the energy to persevere, to deal with the moods that this process releases. With this energy, whoever you can provoke is not for you! The journey is towards the spirit. This channel is a Design of Moodiness. The mood swings, from hope to pain, is the energy of the Solar Plexus and not its potential awareness. Patience is the key. If the mood cycle is not seen for what it is, the wave frequency of the Solar Plexus, then a result may be 'eating' disorders.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF TENSION (2) PROVOCATION INDIVIDUALISM





39





OBSTRUCTION 39





THE VALUE OF OBSTRUCTION IN PROVOKING ANALYSIS, ASSESSMENT



AND REEVALUATION.





66 The troubleshooter The natural gift for solving problems. The natural gift for solving problems. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Á p Practicality and the ability to guide and nurture others. The energy to provoke others



by attempting to solve their problems.



Ä s Ego dominance that generally abuses this gift for self-aggrandizement and personal



ambition rather than for the benefit of others. The emotional drive to dominate that provokes others.





55 Single-mindedness The rare ability not to overcome but to bypass obstacles. The rare ability not to overcome but to bypass obstacles. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" È p The imagination to establish new patterns that make the obstacles irrelevant. The



imaginative energy to provoke through bypassing obstacles.



Ä s Simple hardheadedness. Though less exalted, it can often result in success and



gather support by its very determination. The energy to provoke through hardhead-edness.





44 Temperance Careful evaluation and assessment before taking action. Careful evaluation and a ssessment before taking action. 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" Á p The values of feelings and instincts in establishing the proper timing. The energy to



provoke at exactly the right time.



À s The faulty belief that willpower alone can overcome any obstacle regardless of cir-



cumstances. The energy to provoke that ignores circumstances.





33 Responsibility The avoidance of confronting obstacles if failure puts others at risk. The avoidance of confronting obstacles if failure puts others at risk. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Å p The great benefic whose first consideration is for the larger framework. The energy



to provoke through self-sacrifice.



Í s The often disastrous assumption that others are more at risk if an obstacle is not



confronted. The energy to provoke through the failure to make sacrifices.





22 Á p The instinctual and direct assault of obstacles. The energy to provoke through direct Confrontation assault. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" Å s The principle of preservation that tempts one to go around an obstacle that should



be tackled head-on. An emotional discomfort when direct assault is essential.





11 Ä p The determination when confronted by obstacles to withdraw but only temporarily. Disengagement The energy to provoke by refusing to confront obstacles. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Â s Disengagement, with an accompanying indecision as to when to reengage. The



refusal to confront obstacles without the capacity to know when to engage. The in-decision is also a provocation.





39 39 40 THE GATE OF ALONENESS Channel 40-37 Community A design of being a part seeking a whole Harmonic Gate 37 The Family † 59 v 40 w 64 Center Heart † Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 05° 45' 00" † - 11° 22' 30" † †



This is one of the three gates of social caution (12,33). It is the gate of aloneness. The Ego Circuit is unusual since both its Streams of Awareness do not find their expression directly in the Throat as in the other major Circuits. The awareness possibility is the conditioning of the nature of the Ego. The Heart center is a binary of Heart/Ego strength and Stomach/Ego Power. Deliverance is the gate of Will power and it is to be carefully noticed, this is not an awareness center and not everyone has access to this power. In the Mechanics of the Maia, it is clear, that there is no free will. The Ego of this gate says, 'My belly's full, why should I bother feeding you?' It is always alone, even in a crowded home, yet it is essential to the survival of the community, the principles of the community will collapse unless their is a sustained will to maintain the community. The 37 embraces the 40 and offers the only thing that the Ego is vulnerable to, loyalty. Emotional support drives the will. In athletics, it is well known, that to play before your own community, cheered on by their loyalty, pumps up the will power and regularly leads to vic-tory, which the entire community then experiences as its own.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PLANNING (3) DENIAL MIGRATION (2)





40





DELIVERANCE 40





THE POINT OF TRANSITION BETWEEN STRUGGLE AND LIBERATION.





66 Decapitation The necessary destruction of inferior forces in positions of power before liib- The necessary destruction of inferior forces in positions of power before l b- 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" eration can take place. eration can take place.



À p The authority, coupled with the magnanimity to remove from power only those



which deserve such drastic treatment. The power and authority of the ego to eject individuals in legitimate defense of the group.



Í s Exemplified by the terror of the French Revolution, where the idea of who was de-



serving of punishment was cruelly extended to an entire class. The distortion of the ego through power and authority.





55 Rigidity The recognition that to achieve liberation all negative forces must be r The recognition that to achie ve liberation all negative forces must be re- e- 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" jected. jected.



Ç p The revolutionary that demands absolute victory. The power of the ego is main-



tained in the rejection of negative relationships.



Í s A tendency in revolution to accept a certain amount of necessary deviation on the



assumption that it can be successfully purged later. The weakness of the ego in its loneliness to maintain and not reject negative relationships.





44 Ç p The power to transform and the intuitive intellect to select and organize for the pur-Organization pose of maintaining deliverance. The power of the ego when organized and active, 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" to maintain seperateness.



Ä s An uncontrollable zeal that ignores the quality of support in preference for the quan-



tity which in the long run may destabilize deliverance. The empowering of the ego through the capacity to organize others.





33 Humility A calculated mode in deliverance to avoid attracting the attention of negative A calculated mode in deliverance to avoid attracting the attention of negative 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" forces. forces.



É p The subtlety to enjoy deliverance without having to flaunt it. The capacity of the ego



to avoid negative forces even if it means being alone.



Ä s The ego arrogance that demands attention and gets it. The capacity of the ego to



demand attention.





22 À p The power and authority in deliverance to shed forever the qualities which ham-Resoluteness pered liberation. The power through aloneness to recognize the importance and the 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" potential disruptive effect of others.



Á s A natural peacefulness that in deliverance may sympathize with and attempt to



nurture the forces which hampered liberation. The power of loneliness to blind the ego to the possible disruptive effect of others.





11 À p The ability to relax and enjoy the fruits of one's labours. The ego strength to enjoy Recuperation being alone. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Á s The Moon cannot stand still. The ego uncomfortable with being alone too long.





40 40 41 THE GATE OF CONTRACTION Channel 41-30 Recognition A design of focused energy Harmonic Gate 30 The Clinging Fire ‹ 60 v 41 19 Center Root w ‹ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 02° 00' 00" ‹ - 07° 37' 30" ‹



This is the gate of Contraction, captured in the traditional Chinese image of the gardener in his garden in the Au-tumn cutting back his plants. In terms of our genetics, the 41st gate is the only 'Initiator (start) Codon'. It attests to the importance of the Sensing Circuit and this Stream of Feeling in particular. This gate fuels the potential to rec-ognize. This recognition is through feelings. The fuel gates of this Circuit (64 & 41) are very similar. The 41st gate can contain all the possible range of feelings, yet, as in the mental process, it is only one feeling which will be of value. There is also a parallel between the three channels connecting the Root to the Solar Plexus and the three channels that connect the Root to the Spleen. The Channel of Judgment (58/18) is a mirror of this Feeling Stream. The focus of this stream is to recognize (to judge abstractly) through a single feeling. However, judgment is condi-tioned by the frequency of the now; recognition is conditioned by the wave. It is never immediate. It is always a process. Patience is the great virtue of the Emotionally defined.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE UNEXPECTED (4) FANTASY THE ALPHA (2)





41





DECREASE 41





THE LIMITATION OF RESOURCES WHICH MAXIMIZES DEVELOPMENT OF



POTENTIAL.





66 Contagion The law that the maximization of potential not only ends decrease but inevi-i- The law that the maximization of potential not only ends decrease but inev 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" tably such transcendence benefits others. tably such transcendence benefits others.



Æ p The maximization of the potential of form. The father whose success will benefit his



children. The fuel for recognition through feelings.



É s The tendency in transcendence to keep it a secret in fear of being deprived of its



special advantages. The fuel for secret or repressed feelings.





55 Authorization The external recognition of one's potential despite limitations. The external recognition of one's potential despite limitations. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Ä p The value of energy when properly channelled. The fuel for properly channelled feel-



ings despite limitations.



Ã s A persistent dissatisfaction with limitation which hampers development even when



supported. Limitations initiate the fuel for negative feelings.





44 Correction Successful adaptation to limitation. Successful adaptation to limitation. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Í p Survival of the fittest and its eventual flourishing. The energy for adaption and a



deep feeling for survival.



Ã s The expenditure of energy on maintaining relationships rather than on correction. In



times of decrease weak associations are shunned as costly, no matter how attrac-tive. The energy which fuels holding on to feelings rather than adapt.





33 Efficiency In times of decrease selfishness is justified. In times of decrease selfishness is justified. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Æ p Material ambition and the discipline to go at it alone. The energy that fuels the feel-



ing for personal ambition.



Á s Instinctive assistance, admirable but in this position misguided, where two will use



up resources twice as fast as one. The energy that fuels the feeling to share.





22 Caution Humanism tempered by pragmatism. Humanism tempered by pragmati sm. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" Æ p A conservative nature that does not risk its own security in aiding others. Energy for



one's own feelings but not for others.



Ä s A desire for recognition that throws caution to the wind, depleting valuable re-



sources for only temporary gain. The energy for the display of feelings for recogni-tion.





11 Reasonableness The appropriate delegation of responsibility. The appropriate delegation of responsibility. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" È p The imagination to make the very best out of very little. Coolness, where the energy



to release feelings is selective.



Â s A tendency in understanding, to assume capability, leading to strain. The hothead,



the urge to release feelings.





41 41 42 THE GATE OF GROWTH Channel 42-53 Maturation A design of balanced development Harmonic Gate 53 Development Q 51 v 42 w 3 Center Sacral Q Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 20° 45' 00" Q - 26° 22' 30" Q



This is the gate of maximizing the potential of beginnings through expansion. This is also the gate of bringing things to a close, so that the next step can be taken. The power to complete a cycle is the heart of the growth process. One thing at a time is its mantra. Here, in this Format, is the core of the Abstract process. Since there is no Splenic Center activation in this circuit, the cyclic process can be unhealthy and is always dominated by the presence of fear. Without the Spleen, the recognition of the essential value of the now is missing and yet for the stability of the abstract way, it must be accepted as essential. We exist in the now anyway, despite our perspec-tives. The change of the cyclical process is not the goal. The 'grail' is the experience. The abstract Being must be absorbed in the experience of the now, in order to reflect on the experience later. The potential of Growth is its power to mature through completion of each cycle.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF MAIA COMPLETION LIMITATION





42





INCREASE 42





THE EXPANSION OF THE RESOURCES WHICH MAXIMIZES THE DEVELOP-



MENT OF FULL POTENTIAL.





66 Á p A natural and instinctive nurturing of others. The power to share the process of Nurturing growth with others. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Æ s A restrictive and malefic materialism that is self-alienating and encourages aggres-



sion. The refusal to share the benefits of growth with others.





55 À p The fulfillment and actualization of purpose as a natural path whose reward is a Self-actualization healthy sense of self, rather than the power and influence that naturally follow. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" Growth that is self-fulfilling and naturally leads to influence.



Ã s Self-actualization as a strictly inner experience that may demand or result in a reclu-



sive nature. Inner growth that empowers reclusiveness.





44 Á p The quintessential manifestation of the mediator. The maturity to bring growth The middle man through mediation. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Ã s Where the gift to establish and maintain relationships is ill-suited in this position to



act in mediation where harmony must take a back seat to pragmatism. A lack of maturity where the power to harmonize distorts mediation and limits growth.





33 Trial and error In times of increase, mistakes are a natural part of the process. In times of increase, mistakes are a natural part of the process. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Ä p The energy and assertion to turn mistakes into advantages. The power to accept



mistakes as part of growth.



Á s A moodiness, that in error may succumb to brooding and unnecessary caution.



Mistakes give power to moodiness and caution.





22 À p Recognition and acute capitalization of trends. Power for growth through participat-Identification ing in trends. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" Ã s An ascetically motivated withdrawal in times of progressive change. Growth which



stops in reaction to trends or change.





11 À p The ability when surplus resources are available to extend one's activities beyond Diversification their normal scope. Growth through expansion particularly when defined to the root. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ã s A tendency when surplus resources are available to centrifugal application. Deca-



dence. Too much expansion can lead to decadence.





42 42 43 THE GATE OF INSIGHT Channel 43-23 Structuring A design of individuality (Genius to Freak) Harmonic Gate 23 Splitting Apart ˆ 1 v 43 14 Center Ajna w ˆ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 18° 52' 30" ˆ - 24° 30' 00" ˆ ˆ



The Knowing Circuit is linked to our sense of Hearing. Breakthrough is not to be confused with the so-called 'Third-Eye' or the 'sight' in insight. This is the gate of the Inner Ear. Nothing is more difficult for individuals with this gate, than to listen. They are the most difficult people to teach. It is not a fault or a problem but their genetic pro-tection from undue influence. To teach such a person, one must be simple and begin at the beginning. The Inner Ear listens only to its own 'inner' voice. This is the only possibility to transform the rationalized inner truth into an insight, a unique perspective. This is the gate of Individual Mental Knowing. It is not backed up by facts and may be merely delusion. It takes fortitude, strength even courage to stand behind it. The gates of possibility are the final shaping of an awareness. Once fully conceptualized, they await only access to the Throat and manifestation.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EXPLANATION (4) INSIGHT DEDICATION (2)





43





BREAKTHROUGH 43





IN ORDER FOR ACHIEVEMENT TO BE MAINTAINED A NEW ORDER MUST BE



FAIRLY ESTABLISHED.





66 À p Actualization and centering, that in breakthrough naturally establish both internally Breakthrough and externally a new order. Unique knowing that is both personally and collectively 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" of value.



Ä s An ego tendency that in breakthrough sees justification of its lesser attributes and



carries them over into the new order. Where the value of knowing is more important then other aspects of the life.





55 Á p The step by step adaptation to relationships which hinder breakthrough through Progression practical actions which will not jeopardize eventual success. The gift of knowing 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" when an unique insight can be shared with effectively with others.



Ã s A tendency to concentrate on harmonizing relationships that tends to strengthen the



position of restrictive forces rather than benefiting breakthrough. An over-reliance on the receptivity of others that turns harmony into the conditioner of individual expres-sion.





44 Â p The overreliance and stubborn obsession with one's mental abilities in the face of The one-track mind recurring obstacles. This design, given Mercurial mental gifts, may though rarely 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" succeed. A stubborn reliance on one's unique insights that demands focused mental



ability to be properly conceptualized.



Å s A belief in inherent right action based on limited knowledge that shuns advice. The



vanity to attempt expression without depth.





33 É p The powerful drive for regeneration that will, when breakthrough is threatened, use Expediency any means, align with any force and endure any condemnation to achieve the goal. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" A certainty in knowing which can withstand condemnation.



Á s An oversensitivity to condemnation, that may preclude justified expediency and



result in failure. Individual insight abandoned in the face of condemnation.





22 É p The maintenance of specialized attitudes which promote breakthrough. Unique Dedication mental habits and thought processes which promote insight. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" Á s A dedication to action, that when actualization is in sight may become incautious.



The urge for expression that will abandon its normal processes when an opportunity arises.





11 É p The recognition that new forms cannot be established until resistance has been Patience eliminated. The depth necessary to bring into form an individual insight. 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" Ã s An impatience to enjoy the sweets of accomplishment that inevitably leaves a sour



taste in the mouth. A delight in the insight but a lack of depth to establish it.





43 43 44 THE GATE OF ALERTNESS Channel 44-26 Surrender A design of a transmitter Harmonic Gate 26 The Taming Power of the Great ˆ 28 v 44 1 Center Spleen w ˆ Circuit Ego



Astrologic Position 07° 37' 30" ˆ - 13° 15' 00" ˆ ˆ



This is the Channel of Entreprenerial Enterprise, a design of a Transmitter. Where the channel of Community is socialist, the channel of Surrender is capitalist. The instinct and memory to transmit ones Ego to the Tribe. This is a public channel. This is a gate specifically of Memory. Instinctive memory, not one that can be called forward but a memory that operates in the now and is cued by patterns in experience. The alertness of this gate is the alert-ness to patterns. The possibilities of this instinctive memory and its sharpness have no direct access to expres-sion through the Throat. It is a mirror of the 37th gate, that offers social loyalty and access to the Tribal refrigerator in return for the promise of benefits from the Ego's will power. The 44th gate offers individual loyalty and access to its memory resources in return for the Ego's strength to assuage its fears. Coming to Meet is the gate of the fear of the past.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE FOUR WAYS (3) ALERTNESS INCARNATION (2)





44





COMING TO MEET 44





THE SUCCESS OF ANY INTERACTION IS BASED ON THE ABSENCE OF ANY



PRECONDITIONS.





66 É p A perfected renewal in which the establishment of a new form inures one to the Aloofness condemnation of the rejected. The awareness of patterns which ensures one's in-12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" stinctive well-being.



Í s Intolerance and arrogance for lesser mortals. The awareness of patterns which can



bolster the ego at the expense of the well-being of others.





55 Ç p The ability to transform interaction with inferior elements into the energizing of pro-Manipulation gressive process with the additional benefit, that in tapping the inferior elements 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" they remain weak. Where the instinctive recognition of the patterns leads to the pos-



sible manipulation of others.



Ä s The tendency in this form of manipulation to become abusive and degenerate to



their level. The possibility that the instinctive recognition of the patterns could lead to the abuse of others.





44 Honesty The refusal to engage in hypocritical interaction. The refusal to engage in hypocritical interaction. 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" É p Indifference at its most logical and cutting. The indifference possible when guided



by the instinctive memory.



À s The Sun in detriment, that in extreme situations, in cases of self-sustainment, will



expect assistance from forces it has totally rejected. Here the honesty is the genu-ine need. The sacrifice of indifference for survival.





33 Interference The failure to interact based on circumstances. The failure to interact based on circumstances. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ä p The ability to recognize the threat of interference and to prepare for its effects. The



alertness and instinct to handle the ego of others.



È s A deluded response to interference that gets stuck in projection and as a result is



unrealistic in appraisal and error prone. The possibility that the instinct cannot han-dle the ego of others.





22 Å p The development and management of a proper collective structure which restricts Management inferior elements by creating cooperative modes that integrates these forces with 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" progressive and superior forces. The possibility that alertness to patterns will result in



management capability.



Ä s A tendency in management to concentrate exclusively on goals, ignoring inferior ele-



ments which leads inevitably to quantitative success and qualitative failure. The instinc-tive memory for the patterns that bypasses the development of managerial capability.



11 Conditions The establishment of frameworks as the result of interaction. The establishment of frameworks as the result of interaction. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" É p A mastery of the collective that can establish restrictive conditions for inferior com-

ponents and with the ability to enforce them. An alertness to patterns than can lead to mastery of the collective.

Ã s An attractive nature that will interact with inferior forces and will fail to apply restric-

tions resulting in a risk to continued harmony. The failure of the instinct out of the need for harmony.

44 44 45 THE GATE OF THE GATHERER Channel 45-21 The Money Line A design of a materialist Harmonic Gate 21 Biting Through ƒ 35 v 45 w 12 Center Throat ƒ Circuit Ego

Astrologic Position 17° 00' 00" ƒ - 22° 37' 30" ƒ ƒ



This is the gate of the Master/Mistress, or the King/Queen it is the gate of Dominance. All of the gates of the Throat have voices, here it says, 'I have'. Gathering Together is the expression for the Entire Tribal Group and it is a Throat gate of primary action. All of the potential power of three motors focuses through this expression. As a composite definition, The channel of Materialism, can be one of the most beneficial. 45 is the gate of the pasha, it says to the 21, the hunter/huntress, 'I have this land, and I will allow you to hunt on it as you like but make sure I get the best piece of meat. ' When the 45 is generous in its authority and recognizes the willfull independence of the 21, all is well. More often, the 21 thinks it deserves the best piece and the 45 wants to tell the hunter how to hunt. The 21 represents the demands of the community of its rulers. The 45 is the key to the harmony of the community. When the ruler can say with honesty, 'We have', then there is peace in the Tribe. By the way, a practi-cal cure for depression in either 21's or 45's, go shopping!



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF RULERSHIP (2) POSSESSION CONFRONTATION





45





GATHERING TOGETHER 45





THE NATURAL AND GENERALLY BENEFICIAL ATTRACTION OF LIKE



FORCES .





66 Reconsideration An outsider that can admit that its prior rejection was an error, will generally An outsider that can admit that its prior rejection was an error, will generally 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" be accepted into the gathering. be accepted into the gathering.



Ç p An innate empathy with the outsider mentality and its eccentric and often misunder-



stood logic. A material direction which serves the outsider.



Å s Where Uranus will innovate to find a place for an outsider, Jupiter will demand that it



conforms. A material direction that is focused on conditioning the outsider to con-form.





55 Leadership All gathering together must have a center and a focus. All gathering together must have a center and a focus. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ç p The intuitive intellect and gift for innovation that enhance the group effort and ensure



continuity through respect of the center. The gift for expressing leadership on the material plane.



Å s A sense of right action that assumes a respect that may not as yet have been



earned. The drive for leadership that may not have yet earned the right.





44 Å p The ability to focus the opportunity of gathering together for the service of higher Direction principles. The expression of higher principles on the material plane. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" Ä s The tendency to try to influence the direction of a group action for personal benefit.



The lack of expression of higher principles on the material plane.





33 È p The ability when excluded to take whatever measures are necessary to dissolve the Exclusion antiquated form and to accept even humiliation to achieve inclusion. The instinct to 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" find a way to be included in a material process.



Ä s An aggressive and often violent reaction to exclusion. The expression of frustration



when not included in a material process.





22 Consensus Gathering together is strengthened by acknowledged common interest. Gathering together is streng thened by acknowledged common interest. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" Ç p The inventiveness to establish techniques by which common ground can be as-



sessed. A material direction through the expression of techniques for the benefit of others.



Ä s An innate rebellion against conformity. The refusal to accept the material techniques



of others.





11 Å p The ability to promote and develop gathering together through the education of the Canvassing uncommitted. The material direction lies in education. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" Ä s An overzealousness that turns canvassing into proselytization and tends to alienate



rather than gather support. The drive for material that leads to aggressive education.





45 45 46 T HE GATE OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE SELF Channel 46-29 Discovery A design of succeeding where others fail Harmonic Gate 29 The Abysmal † 6 46 w 18 Center G v † Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 28° 15' 00" † - 03° 52' 30" ‡ ‡



This gate is part of the Cross of the Vessel. It is a gate of Love, the love of the body and the flesh. This is the gate of Serendipity, of recognizing that beginning with one's own body, the body as Temple, that one is always in the right place, at the right time. This can be a gate of discovery and Good Fortune. It is all dependent on the Deter-mination of the Self. The Design of 'Succeeding where other people fail' is also inversely a Design of 'Failing where other people succeed. ' It is through this channel that the Abstract process can find its promise or chaos. The determination to accept that one is in the right place is deeply spiritual. It is surrender to the cycle and in that sur-render is the potential for discovery. It is also clear, that unless the abstract being can accept and commit them-selves to the cyclic nature of their lives, their bodies will begin to fail under the stress of constant crisis, disap-pointment and upheaval.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE VESSEL OF LOVE (3) SERENDIPITY HEALING (2)





46





PUSHING UPWARD 46





GOOD FORTUNE THAT MAY BE PERCEIVED AS THE RESULT OF SERENDIP-



ITY BUT DERIVES FROM EFFORT AND DEDICATION.





66 Æ p The wisdom to secure one's identity through careful consideration of the restrictive Integrity potential of commitments. The determination to say no to restrictive commitments. 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" È s Deceiving oneself and others by overextending one's resources and eventually be-



ing in the position of having to break promises. A drive for success that will not say no, and will end up breaking promises.





55 Á p The maintenance of proper rhythm that in its instinctive practicality avoids radical Pacing divergence from successful patterns. The determination to stay with the rhythm 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" which brings success.



È s An irrational rejection of the very patterns that have proven successful. Determined



to say no to the very rhythm that brings success.





44 Í p The ability, once recognized, to move rapidly from a position of obscurity to influ-Impact ence. The good luck which comes from being determined that eventually, in the right 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" place at the right time, leads to recognition.



É s A reaction in achievement that tends to bite off the hand that fed it. The determina-



tion in success to ignore those who helped create it.





33 Á p A practical approach to good fortune, that maintains the same patterns and atti-Projection tudes that brought success and does not get sidetracked by indulging in further 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" expectations. The determination to stay with what brings success.



Ä s A tendency through projection to treat a potential future as the present, leading to



unjustified egoism and the loss of momentum and support. The determination to treat a projected success as a reality.





22 À p A difficult and demanding nature that succeeds despite its behaviour because of The prima donna the depth of its talents. The determination to succeed that may offend others. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ä s Unrealistic demands and offensive nature of egocentric mediocrity. The determina-



tion to be treated as a success before it has been realized.





11 Being discovered Dedication in obscurity that is unexpectedly discovered. Dedication in obscurity that is unexpectedly discovered. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" È p Art for art's sake. Any creative endeavour that is self-fulfilling sooner or later is rec-



ognized. The potential for creative success through dedication.



Å s The ability to judge the potential of those in obscurity but often solely to benefit



one's own success. The determination to recognize and benefit from the success of others.





46 46 47 THE GATE OF REALIZING Channel 47-64 Abstraction A design of mental activity and clarity Harmonic Gate 64 Before Completion † 64 v 47 w 6 Center Ajna † Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 17° 00' 00" † - 22° 37' 30" † †



This gate is the gate of realization but it is not a comfortable process. This is the Sensing circuit, an abstract cur-rent that cannot be substantiated by facts. This gate can create a lot of mental stress and anxiety. It is a burden even at its best. The 64th gate, the fuel of this conceptualizing potential, can be compared to going to a Movie theatre where you expect to see a feature length film, only to discover that it is showing thousands of video clips. To realize which single clip out of the many makes sense is the potential of this gate of Realization. It is no won-der, that this is the gate of Oppression. This is an ongoing process. The Format of the Sensing Circuit is cyclic. The secret to handling such a process, is also the secret of this entire circuit, Patience! You cannot go into the image pool and rummage around, hoping to find a resolution to the unresolved pressure. There is only waiting, waiting for the moment of realization, ah ha.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF RULERSHIP (3) OPPRESSION INFORMING (2)





47





OPPRESSION 47





A RESTRICTIVE AND ADVERSE STATE AS A RESULT OF INTERNAL WEAK-



NESS OR EXTERNAL STRENGTH OR BOTH .





66 Futility A difficult position for which there is no exaltation. A difficult position for which there is no exaltation. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" p No polarity.



À s The Sun in detriment, where the strength of will alone may find a way to adapt and



survive, but without hope of ever overcoming the oppression. Life as an ordeal stripped of realization.





55 The saint This position has special significance and there is no planet in detriment. This position has special significance and there is no planet in detriment. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ã p The gift in times of oppression to maintain without hypocrisy a harmonic relationship



with one's oppressors, while providing aid and succour to the oppressed. Realiza-tion at its most exalted. Acceptance of the weight of the abstract process and the grace that naturally follows. No polarity.



s No planet in detriment.





44 Repression The constraints of external oppression. The const raints of external oppression. 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" Æ p The strength of identity that even in times of the most powerful oppression can



maintain its resources and to some extent ensure their survival for the benefit of others. A sense of identity that can be maintained despite external conditioning.



Á s When robbed of its light, the Moon is lost in darkness; barely able to nourish itself,



let alone others. The identity overwhelmed by external conditioning.





33 Å p The conscious and well integrated being whose natural right action will eventually Self-oppression come to see the unfoundedness of its oppression. The eventual realization that one 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" is really o.k.



Ä s A self-oppression so highly energized that it may prove irreversible and destructive.



Extreme difficulty in realizing one's self-worth.





22 Æ p The ambition and drive to overcome personal oppression in order to achieve secu-Ambition rity. Realizing that to be busy is mentally healthy. 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" Â s An indecisiveness in times of personal oppression, whether to apply intelligence to



recovery or accept its weight to take advantage of other prevailing conditions that may only be temporary. The inability to sense when and which activity is healthy.





11 Æ p The ability in times of hardship to concentrating on eradicating the negative factors Taking stock that have led to oppression. Realizing that negative thoughts have to be eradicated. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" È s The delusion of seeing oppression as an exclusively external phenomenon with



often disastrous results. The sense that the world is against you.





47 47 48 THE GATE OF DEPTH Channel 48-16 The Wave Length A design of talent Harmonic Gate 16 Enthusiasm ‡ 18 v 48 w 57 Center Spleen ‡ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 09° 30' 00" ‡ - 15° 07' 30" ‡ ‡



The relationship between the 18th gate and the 48th, is between correction and depth. The Well is a resource, a pool. The awareness possibility is to store vital information as a pattern. Its depth, its quality, is dependent on what has resulted from the judgmental process. The Well opens up the possiblity of expression through its poten-tial connection to the throat. Without depth the common good can never be established. The Understanding Cir-cuit is our Logic process.

Its nature is determined by the Format of focus and concentration on patterns. The possibility to recognize in the now which patterns are vital to concentrate and focus on, is the foundation of Talent. Not suprisingly, it is through the Arts, that the need for correction in society is so often a theme. The Well is depth that is available in the mo-ment based on the potential to judge a situation in the now. The keynote of the Collective Circuits is sharing. This depth, whether vital information or trivial is always being shared.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF TENSION (3) DEPTH ENDEVOUR (2)





48





THE WELL 48





THE NECESSARY AND QUALITATIVE FOUNDATION THAT IS A PREREQUI-



SITE TO ESTABLISH THE COMMON GOOD .





66 Self-fulfillment An undiminishable resource. An undiminishable resource. 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" Ã p The valued center, that as it gives, it receives and thus can continue to give. A depth



and potential talent that is of value to others.



Á s A tendency to superficiality, that though generous and nurturing, will lack the inspi-



rational quality that can transform its gift into a common currency. Where the depth is limited the taste will be superficial and affect the quality of the possible talent.





55 Ä p The natural urge to apply energy to action. A taste for action. Action Á s An overreliance on the need for protection that in times of social renewal is ob-13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" sessed with the details of planning at the expense of action. Insecurity with one's



depth that can fail to take action.





44 À p The good sense to take advantage of restriction on short term activity to assess the Restructuring situation and restructure for long term goals that will facilitate development when 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" activity resumes. The awareness that depth and its possible expression will face



restrictions with a resulting taste for short term projects.



Í s A resistance to restructuring on speculation, with the tendency when activity re-



sumes to have to do so anyway. A taste for long term projects that will be frustrated in restraint.





33 Á p Symbolized by the 'no Moon' phase, where the potential of light is unrecognized, Incommunicado unavailable and unknowable. The redeeming value is in the transience of such a 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" stage which can give strength to those so afflicted. Where the development of taste



and depth is a long term process.



Â s The profound anxiety when a profound intelligence is forgotten in the wilderness.



The tendency in a long term process (development of taste and depth) to anxiety.





22 É p The awareness that to successfully establish a new form one cannot neglect the Degeneracy most positive attributes just to accommodate inferior elements. This would lead to 10° 26' 15" - 11° 22' 30" deterioration. A confidence in awareness to resist inferior influences.



Ã s The misguided urge for harmony that degenerates when associated with inferior



values into decadence. A lack of confidence in awareness that invites interference and decadence.





11 Á p An instinctive recognition of what is practical and deserves attention. A taste for Insignificance recognizing what is practical and deserves attention. 09° 30' 00" - 10° 26' 15" Ä s An ego tendency to apply energy to trivial considerations. A taste for trivia.





48 48 49 THE GATE OF PRINCIPLES Channel 49-19 Synthesis A design of being sensitive Harmonic Gate 19 Approach ‹ 13 v 49 w 30 Center Solar Plexus ‹ Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 18° 52' 30" ‹ - 24° 30' 00" ‹



This is the gate of Revolution, at once pure energy, and the capacity in the wave to reject and at the same time, potentially aware and ritualistically spiritual. In the Design of Mammals (see Glossary, Natural World) this channel forms one of the three cross-species connections between animals and Humans. This is the channel of Animism and the exaltation of Animals as gods. The 49th gate has the sensitivity to interact with animals and is the gate of the 'breeder'. Taming and breeding animals to ensure food resources. Revolution is the potential awareness to know what and whom is needed or not to maintain or restructure the community. It seeks the support of the 19, in return for the guarantee of food (social) access. On the mundane plane, Sensitivity is the political 'left' and the Stream of Instinct, the political 'right'. The risk with the principles of this gate, is the nature of the Solar Plexus. When determined by emotional energy, the revolution follows the wave of hope and pain, the hope of 'power to the people' becomes the pain of starvation in the 'gulag'.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF EXPLANATION PRINCIPLES REVOLUTION





49





REVOLUTION 49





IDEALLY THE TRANSFORMATION OF FORMS BASED ON THE HIGHEST



PRINCIPLES AND NOT SIMPLY FOR POWER .





66 Attraction The power of revolution in action to expand its support. The power of revolution in action to expand its support. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" È p An innate impressionability that transforms the fence-sitter into the committed. The



sensitivity and potential to embrace and transform others.



Æ s Stubborn, and often fatal, rejectionism. Oversensitivity that leads to rejection of prin-



ciples and others as a rule.





55 Á p Practical provisions for the needs of others in revolutionary times which ensures Organization support and continued understanding. A potential sensitivity to the practical needs 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" of others.



Ä s A concentration on the organization of power to clearly define authority often at the



expense of higher principles. A rejection of higher principles in seeking to organize others.





44 Å p A political and social agenda, embodied in guarantees to human rights that ensures Platform a just and valued replacement of the old order. A potential sensitivity to the needs of 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" society.



Ä s Promises, promises, promises and only to guarantee support with little possibility of



implementation. A potential to insensitively take advantage of the needs of society.





33 È p The ability to destroy antiquated forms once the restrictions have been removed. Popular discontent The potential in sensitivity to reject failed principles or relationships. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" É s Pluto in detriment, with general support, a savageness in eliminating the old order



that may permanently scar the new. An insensitivity in rejection and rejecting.





22 Í p The determination to exhaust every possible peaceful avenue for change and then The last resort when satisfied that no other course is possible, to plan in detail before revolution is 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" attempted. The potential to explore every possibility before rejecting.



É s The overwhelming revolutionary urge that is impatient with accommodation and



negotiation. The tendency here is the coup d'etat that has little general support. Impatience with accomodation.





11 The law of neces- Revolution has no support unless it is perceived as necessary. Revolution has no support unless it is perceived as necessary. Å p The understanding and application of this law to maximize expansion of support sity and thereby ensure viability. The awareness that the potential of a principle is based 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" on it being accepted as viable.



À s The misuse of influence, to insist that necessity can be created out of action. The



'Helter Skelter' syndrome. To commit acts of disorder as proof that disorder exists. Oversensitivity to rejection that can turn a principle into a crusade.





49 49 50 THE GATE OF VALUES Channel 50-27 Preservation A design of custodianship Harmonic Gate 27 Nourishment ‡ 32 v 50 w 28 Center Spleen ‡ Circuit Defence





Astrologic Position 26° 22' 30" ‡ - 02° 00' 00" ˆ ˆ



The body that the 6th gate 'builds' out of intimacy, the 50th gate 'guards'and maintains. This is the gate of Values. It is the gate of Tribal Law. It is the awareness possibility of the three Streams of the Splenic Awareness; Taste, Intuition and Instinct. It is the key gate in our well being process. It is the heart of our personal immunity and our capacity to both assess and defend. The expression of this capacity is through values. It is our values that are the foundation of our defense. The Defense Circuit is our sexual Circuit. It is the core of the Tribal process. Each inti-macy that results in birth demands that the offspring of the union are nurtured into adulthood (27) and guided by values (50). It is this gate which establishes the rules of caring. Coming out of our most ancient awareness, it is a fundamental ingredient of Human survival. Each of the gates of the Splenic Center have an underlying fear, here it is the fear of responcibility.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF LAWS (3) VALUES WISHES (2)





50





THE CAULDRON 50





THE VALUE OF HISTORICAL CONTINUITY WHOSE TRADITIONAL VALUES



SERVE AND ENRICH THE PRESENT AND THE FUTURE.





66 Ã p The gift in a position of power to maintain harmony even in severity. The strength to Leadership maintain one's values with vigour and continue to have harmonic relationships with 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" others.



Á s An inherent moodiness, that in a position of power may at times alienate or offend



and effect overall efficiency. The strength to mainrtain one's values but at the ex-pense of harmonic relationships.





55 Consistency When continuity has brought success, it should not be tampered with. When continuity has brought success, it should not be tampered with. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Æ p The disciplined and natural conservatism to avoid unnecessary change. The con-



servative awareness that basic principles should not be abandoned casually.



Ä s A perverse reaction to rebel against the methodology of one's very success. When



effectively stimulated, the drive to rebel against basic principles.





44 Corruption The lack of enriching values. The lack of enriching values. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Æ p The malefic gift of turning inferior values into material success. Given this difficult



position, Saturn's exaltation is, that its actions are limited to selfishness and unsa-vouriness rather than criminality. The capacity to maintain one's strength despite inferior values.



Ä s With such energy and no traditional values, the worst can be expected. The poten-



tial disregard of values that may lead to corruption or the breakdown of the defense system.





33 Á p The Moon exalted, that when unable to make it alone will naturally align itself with Adaptability nurturing and protective forces. The awareness that to maintain one's principles and 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" values the support of others is necessary.



Â s A resentment when its natural mental gifts are ignored and is forced to curry favour



in order to survive. Discomfort with the awareness that one cannot stand alone by one's principles.





22 À p The strength of purpose that can enjoy overcoming adversity to achieve its goals. Determination The strength derived from maintaining one's values in the face of opposition or con-27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" ditioning.



Ã s A discomfort with adversity that may lead to determined withdrawal. A lack of



strength, where values are threatened by opposition or conditioning.





11 The immigrant Humbleness of origin that benefits rather than restricts destiny. Humbleness of origin that benefits rather than restricts destiny. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Ä p The desire to be effective and successful that builds on the most fundamental



strengths while it refines its nature. The awareness that the growth and refinement of values will benefit destiny.



Ã s A dissatisfaction with/or embarrassment with origins, that makes an obsession of



refinement. A dissatisfaction with original values that demands refinement.





50 50 51 THE GATE OF SHOCK Channel 51-25 Initiation A design of needing to be first Harmonic Gate 25 Innocence Q 21 v 51 w 42 Center Heart Q Circuit Centering





Astrologic Position 15° 07' 30" Q - 20° 45' 00" Q



This is the gate of Individual Initiative. 51 is the only gate out of the Heart Center that is not part of the Ego Circuit. It embodies the power to compete. Walk down the street with a 51, and they are always a step ahead. This Ego drive leads to either courage or folly and always shocks. This is the gate of Shock. The tri-grams of this gate are Thunder over Thunder, thus the Arousing quality of this energy. This is the Channel of Initiation, one of the three Mystical Channels and the potential is the power to leap into the void. This is a Channel where the Heart has to be looked after both physically and spiritually. This is the gate of wounding. The Warrior and the Fool can do great damage. The Heart is not an Awareness Center. Yet, without this competitive drive, there is no centering in our evolutionary process. Like the 14th gate which empowers our direction, The Arousing empowers a direction of Love. The love of life itself and its constant challenge to our survival.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PENETRATION SHOCK THE CLARION





51





THE AROUSING 51





THE ABILITY TO RESPOND TO DISORDER AND SHOCK THROUGH RECOG-



NITION AND ADAPTATION.





66 À p In times of crisis when all those around are confused and in disorder, the ability not Separation to succumb to the panic but to have the will and vitality to survive it alone. The 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" power of the ego to meet challenges alone.



É s Curiously, the same gift, but one by its attitude that invites disapproval that in the



extreme may even prevent a successful separation. The egoism to meet the chal-lenge alone that may provoke and empower the challengers.





55 À p Perfected illumination that in grasping the nature of the shock, can transform its Symmetry normal patterns into a symmetrical adaptation that rides the shock and avoids its 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" devastation. The perfection of the warrior ego through instinctive adaptation.



Ä s A tendency in seeking the core, to harmonize with one shock only to be over-



whelmed by the next. The egoism to indulge in victory and lose vigilance.





44 Ç p A pure inventiveness and sometimes genius to find some opportunity even in the Limitation midst of the most devastating shocks. The warrior ego that will find some way to 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" answer the challenge.



Â s A reasoned make-do mentality that is ineffectual in times of severe shock. The su-



perficial ego that lacks the resources and depth to answer challenges.





33 À p The life-sustaining awareness that thinks on its feet and thus creates opportunities. Adaptation The power of spontaneity in times of challenge. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" Å s The destabilization that occurs when one's field of normal activity is radically and



unpredictably disturbed, where the tendency is withdrawal rather than adaptation. The ego that may be destabilized in times of challenge.





22 Ä p The recognition of the mechanics of shock that indicates when withdrawal is the Withdrawal only logical action. The instinctive withdrawal when the power of the ego is threat-16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" ened.



Â s Being too smart for one's own good and rejecting withdrawal in the vain belief that



one can outsmart natural forces. The egoism to reject withdrawal and face possible defeat.





11 Reference The advantage of previous crisis experience. The advantage of previous crisis experience. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" É p The gift of re-examination that is the foundation of preparedness. The power of the



ego conditioned by experience.



Ã s A tendency to emotional withdrawal after a shock. The weakness of the ego in times



of challenge.





51 51 52 THE GATE OF INACTION Channel 52-9 Concentration A design of determination Harmonic Gate 9 The Taming Power of the Small „ 15 v 52 w 39 Center Root „ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 03° 52' 30" „ - 09° 30' 00" „



The Understanding Circuit is conditioned by this Format Energy. It determines the proper frequency for all of the circuit's components. Focus and concentration is the theme of this circuit. The 52nd gate, not ironically, is about stillness. More specifically, it is about focusing and channeling energy. It is the fuel of passive rather then active energy functions. All of the Format gates which arise out of the Root center are potentially sources of depression. In this gate, when there is no focus for energy, the depression is a result of restlessness. The stillness is enforced by the mechanic of the gate. This lack of focus leads to tension. With this theme of stillness, the energy can be projected as anti-social in its manifestation. The lack of active energy leads to withdrawal. Concentration benefits from withdrawal.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF SERVICE (2) STILLNESS DEMANDS





52





KEEPING STILL (MOUNTAIN) 52





TEMPORARY AND SELF-IMPOSED INACTION FOR THE BENEFIT OF AS-



SESSMENT.





66 Ã p A harmonic and balanced attunement that is at ease regardless of the situation. The Peacefulness lack of pressure in times of stillness. 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" È s Delusion as a substitute for genuine tranquillity. Given the positive nature of this



position, the delusion may be just as effective as the 'real thing'. Where the pacifica-tion of the energy is extreme, pressure real or imagined does not disturb the stillness.





55 Explanation In times of inaction, the often important ability, to explain one's position. In times of inaction, the often important ability, to explain one's position. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" Í p The often terse but exceedingly accurate statement. Where inaction and focus can



lead to detail.



É s A convolution whose enigmatic nature is normally misunderstood with unpredict-



able circumstances. Where too much inaction can lead to a loss of focus, and not to detail.





44 Æ p Perfected self-discipline and restraint that deals easily and wisely with impulsive Self-discipline temptations. The energy for restraint which recognizes the value of stillness and 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" focus.



Å s Though responsive to the need of a principled control based on the understanding



of conditions, there is a tendency due to its natural expansiveness, to doubt and restlessness. Restless energy and doubt in the face of restraint.





33 Controls External enforcement of inaction. External enforcement of inaction. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Æ p The ability by its very nature to understand restraint with the potential in acceptance,



to use the period to redefine strategies. The energy for acceptance in inaction.



Ã s A deep dissatisfaction with controls that disturb tranquillity, leads to emotional with-



drawal and affects vision. The pressure of restraint disturbs tranquillity.





22 Ã p The pause that is initiated to benefit others. The pressure to restrain energy for the Concern benefit of others. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Ä s A selfish and abrupt pause that may endanger others unnecessarily. The pressure



to selfishly restrain energy at the expense of others.





11 Í p The pause that is so profound that it leads to silence. The pacification of energy that Think before you leads to stillness. speak Ä s Speaking first and living with the consequences afterwards. Energy that cannot be 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" stilled.





52 52 53 THE GATE OF BEGINNINGS Channel 53-42 Maturation A design of balanced development Harmonic Gate 42 Increase „ 39 v 53 w 62 Center Root „ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 15° 07' 30" „ - 20° 45' 00" „



This is the fuel of the maturation process. The Sensing circuit is all about transition and change. The 53rd gate of Development is the fuel of steadfastness. It is the energy to start a new cycle regardless of the changes that its brings. Like the other Format gates out of the Root, this gate carries the potential of depression. The pressure is to begin and ultimately complete a cycle, but without definition to the harmonic gate, 42, there is only stress and frustration. This is an energy which is always seeking new beginnings. The entire Sensing Circuit demands pa-tience. The pressure to begin is not an awareness. It is a mechanic. The pressure rides a wave. It is always pre-sent. The intensity to start one moment will fall away in the next moment. Wait and See. There is no sense starting what one is not going to finish. This defeats the entire purpose of the Abstract process.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PENETRATION (2) BEGINNINGS CYCLES





53





DEVELOPMENT 53





DEVELOPMENT AS A STRUCTURED PROGRESSION THAT IS BOTH STEAD-



FAST AND ENDURING .





66 Á p The successful utilization of the completion of a stage in development, that by its Phasing evident success and value can be used as an example to attract support for the 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" next stage. The energy to attract support for beginnings based on the success of the



past.



É s A tendency in this position, to hide success, in the perverse fear that the success



will either create excessive demands or supporters of the original process will end their support upon completion. The pressure to hide beginnings in fear of losing past support.





55 È p The underlying and often psychic recognition of the intrinsic values of development, Assertion that even in periods of isolation, has the assertiveness to maintain direction. Its very 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" power garners continued support even from those who are basically opposed. The



pressure to recognize the value of development and the energy for beginnings re-gardless of circumstances.



Í s An over-assertiveness, that rather than applied to maintaining support in the face of



opposition and isolation, may actually strengthen the opposing forces by its atti-tude. Where the energy for beginnings attracts the very forces that can abort them.





44 Á p The ability to maintain the strength of one's individuality in complex and often awk-Assuredness ward situations, that ensure continued security and development. The pressure to 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" maintain one's individuality in confused beginnings.



Ã s The persistent difficulty with embarrassing or awkward situations where normal



emotional reactions may prove detrimental. Individual pressure for beginnings that creates awkward and sometimes embarrassing situations.





33 Á p In its most natural position, the concentration on avoiding conflict to ensure protec-Practicality tion and continued development. The pressure to eliminate conflict in order to de-17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" velop.



Ä s The unconscious provoking of conflict that logically threatens security and devel-



opment. Energy which provokes conflict and threatens development.





22 Momentum Success breeds success. Success breeds success. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Á p The protection of early success nurtures further achievement. The pressure to start



something new based on past success.



Ä s A tendency with early success to haste and imprudent action. The pressure based



on success to be impatient for something new.





11 È p The dissolution of old forms but not at the expense of valued components that will Accumulation be retained and transformed. The pressure to begin something new, not from 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" scratch but based on the foundation of the old.



Ã s Development hampered by criticism and the tendency to withdraw rather than make



use of these experiences. The difficulty in starting something new because of the criticism that accompanied the old.





53 53 54 THE GATE OF AMBITION Channel 54-32 Transformation A design of being driven Harmonic Gate 32 Duration Š 38 v 54 61 Center Root w Š Circuit Ego





Astrologic Position 15° 07' 30" Š - 20° 45' 00" Š Š



In the original I'Ching, the Marrying Maiden referred to was based on a legend of a concubine that eventually be-came the Empress of all of China. This embodies the idea of rising up, moving up the ladder. This is a gate of Drive. Since this gate is a fuel of the Ego circuit and that its inherent meaning is Ambition, it can easilly be dis-missed as a very mundane energy. It may be suprising then to discover that the most mystical line of the 384 of the Rave I'Ching is 54. 4 Enlightenment/Endarkenment. It may appear to be an irony, but it is not. Only when one has mastered the instincts to operate on the mundane plane is transformation possible. This gate fuels the drive to transform. In biological terms, it is associated with the body's liquid production. The significance is that it is through the liquid medium that memory is stored and transported! This Instinctive Stream is all about memory.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PENETRATION (4) AMBITION CYCLES (2)





54





THE MARRYING MAIDEN 54





INTERACTION IN ITS MUNDANE SOCIAL CONTEXT BUT ALSO ONE'S MYS-



TICAL AND COSMIC RELATIONSHIPS .





66 Æ p The ingrained responsibility, in terms of maintaining security and personal identity Selectivity that will naturally restrict its relationships to ones that are mutually beneficial. The 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" energy to restrict relationships that hinder ambition.



Å s A generally benefic and expansive nature that assumes that it can instill, what is



otherwise missing in its partners. A waste of energy. The waste of energy in main-taining relationships which hinder ambition.





55 À p The natural authority and actualizing spirit, that in a position of power, can have Magnanimity genuine and fruitful relationships with the less advantaged. (As long as they are in 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" service and make no demands.) The energy for actualizing that despite this power



fuels fruitful relationships with others. No polarity.



s No detriment.





44 Enlighten- Here, in this most mystical of positions, there is neither an exaltation nor a Here, in this most mystical of positions, there is neither an exaltation nor a detriment, for in truth, they are the same. detriment, for in truth, they are the same. ment/endarkenmen p The Alpha and Omega. The end and the beginning. There is no description possi- t ble. Each planet will manifest this energy uniquely with absolutely no guarantee that 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" its effects will even be perceived. However, the potential is always there. The fuel for



transformation at its purest level. No polarity. No specific planetary accent.



s The Alpha and Omega. The end and the beginning. There is no description possi-



ble. Each planet will manifest this energy uniquely with absolutely no guarantee that its effects will even be perceived. However, the potential is always there. The fuel for transformation at its purest level. No polarity. No specific planetary accent.





33 É p The ability when stymied in formal relationships to use secret or purely informal Covert interaction channels, when it is the only resort. The drive when blocked to use secret means to 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" fuel ambition.



Ã s The insistence that formal channels, no matter how frustrating, can be overcome by



the power of attraction. The energy of ambition when blocked will fuel the power of attraction to overcome the obstacle.





22 Æ p The wisdom once a relationship is formally recognized to restrain the temptation to Discretion take advantage of past informal interactions. The energy of restraint fuels ambition. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" Ä s Recognition, in the formal sense, seen as a licence to take advantage of informal



knowledge. A lack of loyalty. Ambition energy which can fuel disloyalty.





11 É p The ability to achieve influence through secret relationships, anywhere from the Influence private adviser to the Satanist. Ambition energized through secret relationships 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" which fuel influence.



Ã s A socially misguided insistence on formal recognition of a relationship, that in terms



of influence, will diminish its power. Ambition which demands formal recognition limiting influence.





54 54 55 THE GATE OF SPIRIT Channel 55-39 Emoting A design of moodiness Harmonic Gate 39 Obstruction Œ 30 v 55 w 37 Center Solar Plexus Œ Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 00° 07' 30" Œ - 05° 45' 00" Œ



The power of the Emotional awareness and its potential to destabilize is the testing ground in Humanity's search for the spirit. Spirit is not a concept. It is not an instinct. It is an emotion. The potential for spirit and its manifesta-tion lie in the 55th gate. As the Rave I'Ching says, Abundance is strictly a question of spirit. It is through this gate that the limitations of emotions are experienced. This is the gate of 'David's Cup'. Abundance is the microcosm of life in form. The cup is always present and there is always something in the cup (our lives) and in the wave of the emotions the cup is perceived as either half-full or half-empty. Abundance is a gate of potential awareness. When the life is experienced emotionally as either this or that, this is not aware. It is the Wave frequency of the emotional Hope to Pain cyle. Moods are the manifestation of this frequency. The individual finds the spirit in the emotional now. The wave is made up of many points in the geometry. At any given point, Spirit is not a matter of compari-son, just the wonder that the cup exists at all.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SLEEPING PHOENIX MOODS SPIRIT





55





ABUNDANCE 55





ABUNDANCE IS STRICTLY A QUESTION OF SPIRIT.





66 Æ p Acquisition obsession that though alienating, is still indirectly beneficial materially to Selfishness others. The possibility of finding the spirit through materialism. 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" Á s Where the material abundance exists, but no one gets to share its light. The 'no



Moon' phase. The possibility that materialism becomes obsessive with a 'mean' spirit that will not share.





55 Ç p The unusual ability in a position of power to accept advice and transform it innova-Growth tively. This gift in a position of power allows one to continue to lead rather than be-03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" ing perceived as being led. The emotional strength and spirit derived from positions



of power.



À s An integrative openness that in its broad acceptance of advice may be eventually



eclipsed. An emotional openness where the spirit is at risk from conditioning.





44 Å p The establishment of a framework that balances principles with energy and leads Assimilation inevitably to expansion and prosperity. The possible spirit that comes when emo-02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" tional awareness and energy are balanced and principled.



Ä s Boundless energy that knows no restraint. Boundless energy that ignores aware-



ness at the risk of the spirit.





33 Innocence Here, 'I was only following orders', is a genuine defence. Here, 'I was only following orders', i s a genuine defence. 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" Æ p When the form is correct and attempts at actualization have been disciplined and



within guidelines, failure cannot be personally attributed. The emotional possibilty to recognize that despite one's best efforts, failure is possible and does not need to affect the spirit.



Ä s Mars in detriment, where a struggle against conformity or individual initiative can



bring a superior to ruin while safely hiding behind his shield. The energy to selfishly protect one's spirit at the expense of others.





22 Distrust Abundance hampered by slander or gossip. Abundance hampered by slander or gossip. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ã p The gift of being able to penetrate to the center that may demonstrate effectively



through its relating talents, that its trustfullness is genuine. Emotional stability and the strength of the spirit is dependent on being trusted by others.



Í s The direct challenge to the slanderers who will always have the advantage of quot-



ing the Bard: 'Methinks he doth protest too much.' Only continued example can overcome distrust. The emotional drive to insist on trustworthiness that does not guarantee its acceptance by others or benefits the spirit.





11 Å p The expansion of activity through cooperation with powerful forces through princi-Co-operation pled actions that guarantee continued support and engender prosperity. The poten-00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" tial to find the spirit through co-operation with powerful forces.



Ã s The concentration on harmonic relationships with powerful forces that provide for



continuity but not necessarily advancement. The potential to harmonize with power-ful forces but not necessarily for the benefit of the spirit.





55 55 56 THE GATE OF STIMULATION Channel 56-11 Curiosity The design of the searcher Harmonic Gate 11 Peace „ 62 v 56 w 31 Center Throat „ Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 26° 22' 30" „ - 02° 00' 00" …



The 56nd gate like the 62nd gate, is metamorphic. Rather then transforming logic into language, the 56th gate transforms the abstract into language. This is the gate of stimulation and says, 'I believe'. This is the expression of the Channel of Curiosity, the design of a seeker, a searcher. The expression of an idea is not a fact. It cannot be substantiated by formula. The idea is never a solution but is always a journey. Collective mental awareness is never primarily about action. The eyes and what they see and how the images are manipulated within the mind are forever illusionary. The collective mind is about translating the Human experience into language. It is about fixing our relative place in time, the logic projecting into the future and the abstract reflecting on the past. Not suprisingly, the 56th gate in its genetic relationship, is a 'stop Codon'. A punctuation point at the end of a sen-tence. Once an idea is expressed verbally, that is the end of the process!



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF LAWS (2) STIMULATION DISTRACTION





56





THE WANDERER 56





STABILITY THROUGH MOVEMENT. THE PERPETUATION OF CONTINUITY



THROUGH THE LINKING OF SHORT TERM ACTIVITY.





66 À p The prudence, when linkage has been achieved, to honour its new commitments in Caution order to secure its footing. Honesty in expression. Living by one's word. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" É s The profound unconscious wanderer, where external yearning for acceptance will



unconsciously release the exact energy that creates rejection. A difficult role, where the self is unknown and not recognized with predictable results. Wandering throughout the life from one expression to the next unable to find the stimulation that one could live by.





55 Ç p Unusualness, innovation and sometimes genius as guarantees of eventually attract-Attracting attention ing attention and support. Stimulation at its most innovative and unusual. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Ä s All too often the tendency to attract attention that is self-defeating in its effects. The



power of stimulation to provoke and disturb.





44 Á p The perfection of the superficial personality, that can mask, when essential, its true Expediency feelings to secure protection. The gift for stimulation as a role and for protection. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Â s Expedient behaviour whose price is a constant stressful alertness and nervous



anxiety in fear of losing what has been gained. The role as reality. The fear of silence and of being uncovered.





33 Alienation Determined self--sufficiency. Determined self sufficiency. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" À p A will and egoism that often proves overbearing and guarantees continued isola-



tion. Here, this is acceptable given the Sun's intrinsic vitality. The drive to control and be the focus of expression.



Ã s The reversed aesthetic that offends others, ensures isolation, and eliminates sup-



port. The drive to control the expression at the expense of stimulation.





22 Ç p Isolated genius that will eventually find continuity through recognition and support. A Linkage genius for stimulating expression that will take time to mature and will need others to 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" recognize it.



Á s A superficiality which collapses under recognition and is eventually forced to move



on. A gift for communicating but not enough depth.





11 Á p The practical sense that even short term activities should be of value. Expression of Quality practical ideas that have value. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Ä s The ego drive to make an impression that will misuse energy in trivial pursuits. The



drive to stimulate that will express any idea, no matter how trivial.





56 56 57 THE GATE OF INTUITIVE INSIGHT Channel 57-20 The Brain Wave A design of awareness 34-57 Power A design of an archetype 48 57 32 10-57 Perfected Form v w A design of survival ‡





Harmonic Gates 20 Contemplation

10 Treading 34 The Power of the Great

Center Spleen

Circuit Knowing

Astrologic Position 15° 07' 30" ‡ - 20° 45' 00" ‡ ‡



The name the Gentle is a misnomer. This is an extremely yang energy, like the penetration of a chill breeze that can touch you to the bone. This gift of possible intuitive insight is the capacity to penetrate to the core in the now. It is the possibility to transform the lessons learnt in the trial and error of struggle. This is a very complex gate and can connect to three different centers. Within this Intuitional Stream of the Knowing Circuit, the 57th Gate connects directly to the Throat. This gate is the Awareness foundation for survival. Each of the Splenic gates has an underlying fear, here, it is the Fear of Tomorrow. Relatively speaking, a major handicap of the individual is a difficulty in listening. Designed not to be influenced, their Hearing, which is a theme of this circuit, can be selective. The Gentle is the gate of Hearing in the Now, the gate of the right ear. The maximization of intuitive clarity demands existential attention. The whole key to Splenic Awareness is to pay attention in the now, otherwise the Splenic information, the 'hunch', is so easily ignored. When focused and anchored in the Now, there is no tomorrow or fear.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF PENETRATION (3) INTUITION THE CLARION (2)





57





THE GENTLE 57





THE EXTRAORDINARY POWER OF CLARITY.





66 Ç p The acceptance that clarity is a double-edged sword. There are situations where Utilization understanding cannot lead to rectification. Here, Uranus' innovative quality can 19° 48' 45" - 20° 45' 00" generally make the best out of an otherwise difficult but rarely permanent situation.



Where there is no answer, only the possibilities of the intuition can make the best out of a difficult situation.



Ä s When clarity points to a problem one is unable because of circumstances to solve,



a tendency to anger and frustration that provokes inevitably futile action. The possi-bility that when the intuition cannot solve a problem, a tendency to frustration and anger.





55 É p The natural ability to establish new forms while maintaining the powers of re-Progression evaluation and reexamination. This provides the clarity to examine the data and 18° 52' 30" - 19° 48' 45" assess the process. The possible intuitive gift for evaluation.



Á s The tendency to keep on keeping on, that can end up as a misguided missile.



When in action, the intuition may become overwhelmed and unable to assess and evaluate its progress.





44 Ã p The mastery of relationships that through clarity can maximize productivity while the The director sensitivity to interrelationships will ensure harmony. The possible intuitive clarity to 17° 56' 15" - 18° 52' 30" master relationships.



Ä s A tendency given this position to be dictatorial rather than directorial. With the gift of



clarity to master relationships, the possibility of being intuitively dictatorial.





33 Â p The perfected intelligence, where clarity eliminates doubt and ensures manifesta-Acuteness tion. The possibility of perfected intuition. No polarity. 17° 00' 00" - 17° 56' 15" s No planet in detriment.





22 Cleansing The clarity to establish proper values and ideals must be accompanied by The clarity to establish proper values and ideals must be accompanied by 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" resolute determination to maintain them. resol ute determination to maintain them.



Ã p Perfected cleansing through inner realization. The possibility for proper values and



ideals through intuition.



Á s A superficial cleansing that tends to hide the dirt underneath the carpet. The possi-



bility that the depth of the intuition will be treated superficially.





11 Ã p The gift of penetrating to the inner meaning that ensures timely action. The possibil-Confusion ity of the intuition penetrating to the inner meaning. 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" Á s The Moon in detriment, where feelings are no substitute for clarity and can lead to



indecision. The possibility that confusion will overpower the intuition.





57 57 58 THE GATE OF ALIVENESS Channel 58-18 Judgment A design of insatiability Harmonic Gate 18 Work on What Has Been Spoilt Š 10 v 58 w 38 Center Root Š Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 03° 52' 30" Š - 09° 30' 00" Š Š



The connections between the Root and the Splenic Centers have enormous impact on our health and well being. The Spleen, our body's washing machine is not a motor. In order to function the immune system has to be ener-gized. The primary and most natural fuel is from the Root. These channels connecting the two centers are by their very nature healthy but at the same time, difficult. The Channel of Judgment is a design of Insatiability. Not being satisfied in the now. Its mundane nature, its criticism and relentless dissatisfaction often gives an erroneous im-pression of its value and importance. 58, the fuel of this Stream of Taste, is the gate of Vitality. It is literally the zest for life and the energy, and this is its key, for 'a better life'. Criticism is a natural by-product of this improvement energy. Betterment is founded on conditioning both social and moral. This gate is the vitality to challenge that conditioning and to improve upon it.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF SERVICE (4) VITALITY DEMANDS (2)





58





THE JOYOUS 58





STIMULATION IS THE KEY TO JOY.





66 Á p The tendency to practicality that while thoroughly enjoying external stimulation has Carried away the instinct to draw back when its independent integrity is threatened. The energy to 08° 33' 45" - 09° 30' 00" fuel independent integrity that will maintain its identity in times of stimulation.



Â s When its basic intelligence is effectively stimulated, its natural desire for attunement



will lead it to identify so strongly with the stimulation that it is at risk of losing its iden-tity. The energy which fuels loss of identity in times of stimulation.





55 Á p The natural and practical instinct to protect oneself regardless of temptations. The Defense fuel for self-defense regardless of stimulations. 07° 37' 30" - 08° 33' 45" À s The assumption that the best defense is a good offense, that might allow strength



of character to enjoy questionable stimulus without succumbing to it. The energy for aliveness which forsakes self-defense and will embrace questionable stimulations.





44 É p A natural specializiation that when confronted with a multiplicity of stimulations will Focusing have no inner difficulty in focusing on the appropriate influence. The energy to fuel 06° 41' 15" - 07° 37' 30" recognition of which stimulation is of value.



È s An impressionability that becomes confused when confronted with a multiplicity of



stimulations and in trying to accommodate all of it, becomes unstable. Energy which becomes unstable when overstimulated.





33 Ç p The individual whose electric vitality creates its own stimulation and is not depend-Electricity ent on others. The energy to fuel independent stimulation. 05° 45' 00" - 06° 41' 15" Ä s The quality of fire is dependent on its fuel and subject to its influence, good or bad.



The energy for aliveness that is dependent on others for stimulation.





22 p No polarity. No exaltation. Perversion Ç s A genius for perverse stimulation that afflicts oneself and others by promoting de-04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" generacy and reducing joy to indulgence and decadence. The energy which fuels



the drive for perverse stimulation.





11 Ã p The very stimulation of the world is the basis of an aesthetic appreciation of its Love of life beauty and wonder. Alone or shared with others this profound inner realization is 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" the key for a joyous harmony with the process of being. The energy which fuels the



love of life.



Á s The Moon has its phases, its moods, that will limit joy to an intermittent and cyclical



experience. A cyclical energy which intermittently fuels the love of life.





58 58 59 THE GATE OF SEXUALITY Channel 59-6 Mating A design focused on reproduction Harmonic Gate 6 Conflict † 29 v 59 40 Center Sacral w † Circuit Defence





Astrologic Position 00° 07' 30" † - 05° 45' 00" † †



It is through this gate that our sexual types are defined. This is the Sacral power to be able to break down barriers. When the possibility of bonding and the fuel of expressed sexuality are connected, defined, we have the Channel of Mating, a design focused on reproduction. Here is the dynamic power of sex drive. When this channel is de-fined, all love making can result in fertilization! This is the most intimate of the three social channels. (The other two are, Openness 12/22 and Community 37/40) It also carries a different meaning when it connects together people who are not lovers. This is a channel of intimacy, the need for a deep connection to others and the result-ing fertility can be applied to projects and careers and is not limited to reproduction, though that is its primary function. It is also an energy which can be confusing to others. The 2nd and 4th lines below, are often assumed to be sexual, when they obviously are not, leading to conflicts and all sorts of projection.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF THE SLEEPING PHOENIX (3) STRATEGY SPIRIT (2)





59





DISPERSION 59





THE ABILITY TO BREAK DOWN BARRIERS TO ACHIEVE UNION.





66 The one night The tendency based on personality or circumstances to accept only temp The tendency based on personality or circumstances to accept only tempo- o- rary unions that may be otherwise impossible or dangerous to continue. rary unions that may be otherwise impossible or dangerous to continue. stand Ã p The perfected relationship whether for a moment or an eternity. The power for inti- 04° 48' 45" - 05° 45' 00" macy regardless of conditions.



Â s The basic drive to move on, that seeks impermanency as a matter of course and



not in response to circumstances. The drive for sexual and intimate diversity.





55 À p The power to use love to break down any barrier. Given the Sun's 'lightness' there is The femme fatale no negative connotation inherent in this description. The power of sexuality to attract or Casanova others. 03° 52' 30" - 04° 48' 45" Ç s Uranus in detriment, where the negative potential of this power becomes evident.



The Gigolo, the adventuress. The power of sexuality expressed as sexual power.





44 Ã p The dropping of barriers to union to establish a universal union. The power derived Brother-from non-sexual intimacy. hood/sisterhood Â s An intellectual understanding that is rarely put into action. Where the idea cannot 02° 56' 15" - 03° 52' 30" restrain the sex drive.





33 Æ p Saturn exalted, where the search for identity and security can only be achieved Openness through the dropping of barriers, in order to define oneself through union. Where 02° 00' 00" - 02° 56' 15" one is empowered through union and intimacy with others.



Ä s Where openness is transformed into promiscuity and its attendant problems. Where



the drive for empowerment, through union and intimacy, can lead to promiscuity.





22 Shyness Self--imposed barriers. Self imposed barriers. 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" Ç p A preferred and natural separateness that protects against the inevitable instability



engendered by union. The restriction of the sex drive to maintain separateness.



É s A calculated shyness, rooted in deep psychological barriers, that even in dynamic



individuals will always restrict interaction. Infertility, rooted psychologically or biologi-cally, that conditions the drive for separateness.





11 À p The authority and vitality that in understanding purpose and direction can recognize The preemptive and eliminate barriers before they become impregnable. The power of fertility to strike impregnate. 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" Â s In this position, the ability and intelligence to recognize, but a deep indecisiveness



about how and when to act. The potential of fertility limited by uncertainty.





59 59 60 THE GATE OF ACCEPTANCE Channel 60-3 Mutation Energy that fluctuates and initiates. Harmonic Gate 3 Difficulty at the Beginning Š 61 v 60 41 Center Root w Š Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 26° 22' 30" Š - 02° 00' 00" ‹ ‹



This is the energy of limitation itself. This gate is the pulsing pressure to mutate. In terms of the collective, the Knowing Circuit is the experimental field where mutations can develop that may or may not be of benefit to the whole. This possibility of mutation is grounded in the release of limited amounts of energy. This limitation, the pulse, manifests as power bursts rather then sustained flows. Knowing, is there and it is not. The mystery of mu-sic, as Miles Davis the jazz composer noted, is in the space between the notes. It is in the 'space' that mutation takes place.

Acceptance of limitation is the heart of this process, otherwise this energy can manifest as chronic depression.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF LAWS (4) LIMITATION DISTRACTION (2)





60





LIMITATION 60





THE ACCEPTANCE OF LIMITATION IS THE FIRST STEP IN TRANSCEN-



DENCE.





66 Ç p The intuitive intellect to recognize when absolute rigidity is essential but with innova-Rigidity tive applications to lessen its severity. A fixed energy that is unusual in its capacity 01° 03' 45" - 02° 00' 00" for restraint.



Â s The dogmatic, principled and carefully reasoned understanding that is uncom-



promizing in its severity and often coldly brutal in operation. An uncompromizing and severe acceptance of restraint. So uncompromizing that the restraint may be-come unbearable and lead to chronic depression.





55 È p The awareness that the destruction of the old limitations simply creates new ones. Leadership This results in behavioural patterns that demonstrate this understanding through 00° 07' 30" - 01° 03' 45" actions and enhances leadership potential. The energy to handle a lifelong process



of dealing with limitations.



Å s Where the natural desire for expansion, when limitations are essential, creates con-



fusion from the top. Expansive energy that cannot handle limitations.





44 Â p The reasoned and intelligent maximization of potential within limitations. The maxi-Resourcefulness mization of potential within limitation. 29° 11' 15" - 00° 07' 30" Ã s A tendency in times of limitation to seek the inner meaning of the restriction rather



than using its gifts to find a harmonic application within the limitation. The former leads to withdrawal and the latter to transcendence. The energy to know rather than accept limitation at the expense of possible mutation, leading to depression.





33 Æ p Enlightened self-interest, that naturally handles restrictions and limitations ensuring Conservatism identity and security. The energy to maintain identity and security despite limitations. 28° 15' 00" - 29° 11' 15" Ä s Ego gratifying self-interest that ignores limitations and suffers predictably. Energy



which ignores limitations and pays the price.





22 Æ p The understanding of the nature of limitation, to accept its restraints when neces-Decisiveness sary and thus be able to take advantage of opportunities when they arise. Energy 27° 18' 45" - 28° 15' 00" which can adapt to restraint.



Í s An adaptation to restraint that becomes habitual and maintains the nature of the



limitation even when it no longer exists. The energy for adaptation that can get stuck without eventual mutation.





11 Ã p The ability to maintain inner harmony when confronted by external limitations. Har-Acceptance monic energy that can deal with external limitations. 26° 22' 30" - 27° 18' 45" Â s The drive for diversity, that when limited can become restless and agitated. Restless



energy when confronted with external limitations.





60 60 61 THE GATE OF MYSTERY Channel 61-24 Awareness A design of the thinker Harmonic Gate 24 Returning Š 54 v 61 w 60 Center Head Š Circuit Knowing





Astrologic Position 20° 45' 00" Š - 26° 22' 30" Š Š



The old joke about history being his story and mystery being my story, Inner Truth is the pressure to resolve the individual mystery. The Head Center is not an Awareness Center. It is a pressure. The intensity of the pressure can fuel unique inspiration or can lead to delusion and madness. The Knowing Circuit is outside of the collective. The frequency of Mental Awareness is over all time. The pressure of the unknown and knowable haunts the thinkers mind. This is the pressure to know the absolute.

The Knowing Circuit is extremely complex. There are three different Fuels bringing pressure to this individual process. It helps to illustrate clearly how different aspects of our nature have a symmetry with others. 38:Opposition, the Fighter and 39:Obstruction, the Provocateur, like Inner Truth are aspects operating out of dif-ferent frequencies but doing the same work. Unique inspiration is both a struggle and a provocation. The pressure to fight is spontaneous, the pressure to provoke comes in a wave, but the pressure to know stays the whole life. The potential of Struggle is staying alive in the now. The potential of provocation is the discovery of the Spirit. The potential of Inner Truth is Silence.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF MAIA (4) THINKING OBSCURATION (2)





61





INNER TRUTH 61





THE AWARENESS OF UNIVERSAL UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES.





66 É p The profound attunement to the collectivity that can lure the public to a truth. Inspi-Appeal ration that can bring clarity to the collective. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Ä s A reliance on shop-worn cliches and slogans that may be new in their level of en-



ergy but inevitably fall on deaf ears. The delusion that inspiration can bring clarity to the collective.





55 Æ p The enlightened Father figure whose recognized wisdom and powerful assertion Influence can mold a generation by its influence. The pressure to know that may result in influ-24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" ence and wisdom.



Ä s A tendency in power to want to enforce compliance to ensure lasting influence. The



pressure in knowing to resent challenges and demand acceptance.





44 Æ p The capacity of concentration to explore the depths of inner truth and maximize its Research application to fundamental principles. The pressure to know the fundamental princi-23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" ples.



Å s Where the tendency to expansion and integration leads to involving others in the



research and may end in a diversity of confusing applications. The illusion that col-laboration will enhance inspiration.





33 Interdependence It is exceedingly difficult for truth to stand alone. It is exceedingly difficult for truth to stand alone. 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" Á p The ability to establish relationships for the actualization of truths, and through their



nurturing and protective power to ensure a stable environment in which they can continue to grow. The pressure to know enhanced through collaboration.



Ä s With an abundance of energy and in possession of a truth, the tendency to leave



others behind or be crushed by their resistance. Impatience with others and the forsaking of relationships.





22 Á p The Moon exalted, and so gifted by this position a far-reaching, a nourishing influ-Natural brilliance ence, free of guile and powerfully attractive. A gift for inspiration that is both attractive 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" and beneficial to others.



Ä s That in early recognition of its influence becomes ego obsessed with maximizing its



effects. A delusion that any inspiration deserves recognition.





11 È p A natural psychic awareness that empowers principles of universalization. The pres-Occult knowledge sure to know the mysteries through esoterics. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ã s Where a reliance on secret knowledge increasingly demands ascetic withdrawal



and leads eventually to obscurity. Where the pressure to know the mysteries can be so strong that one can be eventually incapable of handling exoteric realities.





61 61 62 THE GATE OF DETAIL Channel 62-17 Acceptance A design of an organizational being Harmonic Gate 17 Following „ 53 v 62 w 56 Center Throat „ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 20° 45' 00" „ - 26° 22' 30" „



This gate of the Throat Center says, 'I think'. It is not the Opinions of 17 that speak but the mechanical capacity for Detail which communicates. The Throat center associated in our biology with the Thyroid Glands, is our center for metamorphosis. This channel is the perfect illustration of this function. What is a visualization at the mental level is concretized in the Throat, opinion manifests as words. It is through this gate the things (formulas) are given their names. The fixing of names is the foundation of the Maia. The 62nd gate is manifestation through detail. This drive for detail can become compulsive. In order for the Collective to understand its world, everything must have a name. The quality of the opinion is always dependent on the ability to detail the concept logically, not on the con-cept itself. 'I think' is not 'I do'. The concept of how things should be organized must face the crucible of testing, repetition and experimentation. This is the gate of the development of language and the common ground for shar-ing the Human experience.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF MAIA (2) DETAIL OBSCURATION





62





PREPONDERANCE OF THE SMALL 62





CAUTION, PATIENCE AND DETAIL PRODUCE EXCELLENCE OUT OF LIMITA-



TION .





66 Æ p A penny saved is a penny earned. Detail as the path to material success. The un-Self-discipline derstanding that material success depends on the expression of detail. 25° 26' 15" - 26° 22' 30" Â s The skills but not the discipline to succeed. The gift for, but not the discipline, to do



the necessary detail work to succeed.





55 Metamorphosis When excellence is achieved, action is necessary. When excel lence is achieved, action is necessary. 24° 30' 00" - 25° 26' 15" Á p The reaching out to others to share, symbolized by the Moon's phases as it moves



from darkness to eventually sharing fully its light. The understanding that only when the details are complete can action or expression be initiated.



È s A tendency in metamorphosis to seek acclaim through dramatic presentation. When



the details are organized, the need for attention demands expression.





44 Ã p The perfected ascetic withdrawal in the pursuit of harmony and simplicity, where Asceticism outside dangers do not exist, and there is time to pursue inner meaning in detail. 23° 33' 45" - 24° 30' 00" Detail that can only be expressed after periods of isolation and reflection.



É s The urge to take action against established values that when restrained by circum-



stances, leads to withdrawal that waits for opportunity. Where the detail is organ-ized, isolation as a strategy waiting for the right opportunity for expression.





33 Ç p A genius for the unusual. The ability to discover valuable information in detail work Discovery and to find innovative applications for this knowledge. The unusual gift of finding 22° 37' 30" - 23° 33' 45" and expressing valuable details.



Ã s A dissatisfaction with the monotony of detail work, where what is missed may be of



great importance and value. The expression of dissatisfaction and boredom in detail work.





22 Æ p The innate restrictiveness and discipline to comply with and exalt restraint. The dis-Restraint cipline necessary for detail work. 21° 41' 15" - 22° 37' 30" Â s The intellect stymied by severe restraints tends to anxiety and restlessness. The



expression of anxiety and restlessness when faced with detail work.





11 È p The ability to transcend the boredom of routine through a rich and daring fantasy Routine life. The ability to organize the detail through fantasy. 20° 45' 00" - 21° 41' 15" Ä s Rebellion and its enormous waste of energy. The need for expression which ignores



the details.





62 62 63 THE GATE OF DOUBT Channel 63-4 Logic A design of mental ease mixed with doubt Harmonic Gate 4 Youthful Folly Œ 37 v 63 w 22 Center Head Œ Circuit Understanding





Astrologic Position 11° 22' 30" Œ - 17° 00' 00" Œ



This is the fuel of doubt, of suspicion, of distrust. The doubt is not only projected out into the world but it is also turned in on itself. The pressure of this doubt is an essential inspiration of the entire logic system. The Understanding circuit is universal in lifeforms on this planet. Understanding is an essential process in this life and it begins with doubts. This pressure of uncertainty demands proofs, facts, substantiation. There is no need to feel uncomfortable because one has doubts, they are the beginning of a process of understanding, not an end. The foundation of this circuit is patterns. The doubt will only arise when there is something unclear in the pattern. This is the gate of Questioning and it is not aware. The logic circuit is about establishing with certainty the validity of a pattern so that it can form the basis for projecting into the future. The pressure of doubt fuels anxiety and the fear for the Collective future. The fuel is to question. The pressure is a need for an answer.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS DOUBTS DOMINION





63





AFTER COMPLETION 63





IN THE SPIRAL OF LIFE, ALL ENDS ARE BEGINNINGS.





66 Å p The good sense to avoid turning the previous struggle into an obsession. The logic Nostalgia of leaving old doubts behind. 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" É s Revolutionary nostalgia. Illogic and the potential obsession with old suspicions and



doubt.





55 À p The authority and sincerity of purpose to pursue the same values in the new begin-Affirmation ning that had allowed it to transcend the old. The understanding that doubts are 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" necessary and of value.



Ä s A tendency in triumph to pay lip service to such values, and given such leadership,



these values will be reduced to nothing more than empty rituals. Doubting one's very process despite understanding.





44 Â p The detailed accounting of the achievement process whose information base can Memory prepare a new order for the future. The pressure to explore the doubt in detail as a 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" foundation for eventual formulizing.



Ä s A willingness to forget in the glow of victory, with a possible price to be paid later.



The pressure and risk to forget the details when the doubts have been answered.





33 Å p The dedication to the new beginning that insists on maintaining its achieved princi-Continuance ples despite having to interact with those who have not attained such a state. 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" Doubts that one can maintain one's principles when interacting with others.



Æ s Success at any price. The pressure to eliminate the doubt at any cost.





22 Å p The establishing of a large framework through which achievement can be expanded Structuring and shared; compensating others for their contributions while maintaining control of 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" direction. The pressure to share one's doubts with others while still maintaining con-



trol.



Ç s Instability in achievement that when in positions of authority leads to arrogance and



the desire to keep others away from the center of power. Doubts in achievement that can lead to suspicion of others.





11 À p The quality of personality where achievement is accepted with equanimity and Composure where continued development is allowed to take its natural course. Acceptance of 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" achievement but doubt whether continued development will take place.



Ä s The tendency in achievement to immediately seek new goals at the risk of destabi-



lizing what has already been accomplished. The pressure in achievement to still doubt one's capacities and to immediately seek new goals.





63 63 64 THE GATE OF CONFUSION Channel 64-47 Abstraction A design of mental activity and clarity Harmonic Gate 47 Oppression † 40 v 64 47 Center Head w † Circuit Sensing





Astrologic Position 11° 22' 30" † - 17° 00' 00" † †



The Head is a Pressure Center not an awareness. This is the beginning of the Abstract mental process. The key-note of this channel is mental activity. The term Confusion is not to be taken as a negative. It simply means that the pressure is a busy mind with a great deal of data (most of which is superfluous) that requires filtering before the pressure can be relieved. While the Logic process tests the pattern in the present to project into the future, the Abstract process is about experiencing the present in order to reflect upon it, when it is past. The pressure of this gate is a flood of images rooted in past experience. When activated from the Design (pre-natal data), this is also a powerful dreaming gate. Since this is the mental pressure for the Abstract Circuit, the starting point is by its very nature a mixed blessing.



THE RIGHT ANGLE CROSS OF THE JUXTAPOSITION CROSS OF THE LEFT ANGLE CROSS OF CONSCIOUSNESS (3) CONFUSION DOMINION (2)





64





BEFORE COMPLETION 64





TRANSITION, LIKE BIRTH, REQUIRES A DETERMINED STRENGTH FOR THE



PASSAGE THROUGH.





66 Â p The mental assuredness, that knew that victory was inevitable, thus making triumph Victory sweet but not reason for excess. The mental gift of enjoying the confusion and its 16° 03' 45" - 17° 00' 00" diversity of data.



Ã s Like the story of the Trojan Horse, it can be dangerous to get carried away in cele-



bration, least one looses vigilance and perspective. With all the diversity of data, it is easy to lose perspective.





55 Ã p The values promised in any new order are demonstrated through harmonic interac-Promise tions with others. This strengthens the justification for the struggle. Confusion over 15° 07' 30" - 16° 03' 45" which values and relationships can bring harmony.



Å s A tendency in trying to justify the struggle by focusing exclusively on the failure of



the old order that cannot demonstrate the quality of the new. Focusing on the past confusions about values and relationships.





44 Á p Symbolized by its phases, the Moon is assured of transition convinced by its very Conviction process that it will triumph. The assuredness that confusion is a process that results 14° 11' 15" - 15° 07' 30" in realization.



Ä s Where force and energy alone cannot overcome doubt. Where the confusion is so



energized, assuredness brings no relief.





33 Æ p The wisdom to recognize when one has not the necessary resources to complete Overextension transition. Such timely awareness may give it a chance to seek assistance. The 13° 15' 00" - 14° 11' 15" wisdom to accept confusion as a temporary state, that will be resolved in time or



through others.



Á s The risk of a superficially confident personality that when transition collapses, there



is no one to turn to. Overconfidence that the Fates will be kind on demand.





22 Ã p An inner development which recognizes what qualities are essential for transcen-Qualification dence and the awareness that without them, action will fail. Inner development that 12° 18' 45" - 13° 15' 00" can end the confusion over what makes sense.



Á s Constantly in action, it wastes the very qualities and resources that it will need. Get-



ting lost in the confusion and burdening the psyche.





11 Ã p In penetrating to the center, the understanding that instills the necessary harmony Conditions to survive disorder. Amongst the confusion, the difficulty in finding the point. 11° 22' 30" - 12° 18' 45" Ä s The powerful temptation when having transition in sight, to hasty action. An urge to



act when you think you have made sense of the confusion.





64 64





